Good morning, Harbour Point, come on, all over this room, would you stand up and put your hands up for a little bit more?
Together, we come to celebrate the one that we believe in. That is Jesus Christ. Come on, put those hands.
Let's sing.
If you believe, won't you put them together?
Yeah, I believe in crucifixion.
By His blood, I have been severed.
I believe in resurrection.
Hallelujah, if a life is death to me.
Let's sing all praise.
Hallelujah, yes I do.
Hallelujah, I believe in Him.
I believe in the hope of heaven.
He's preparing the place for me.
Far beyond my heart's imagine.
Here's a bird and night I see.
I believe that He's going.
His return is to blame, it's bright.
Light the altar, keep it burning.
See the light, the rose of holy light, yeah.
All praise to the Father.
All praise to Christ the Son.
All praise to the Holy Spirit.
Our God has overblown.
The King, the Word, there is, and never more will be.
And Jesus, writing in, I believe, yeah.
I believe in You, Lord, and I trust You.
I believe in You, though I'll never be ashamed.
Of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
How could I ever walk away?
Will the Word have saved my life?
No, I'll never.
No, I'll never be ashamed.
Of the gospel of Jesus.
How could I ever walk away?
From the Word who saves my life?
No, I'll never.
No, I'll never be ashamed.
Of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
How could I ever walk away?
From the Word who saves my life?
No, I'll never.
All praise to the Father.
All praise to Christ the Son.
All praise to the Holy Spirit.
Our God has overblown.
The King, the Word, there is, and never more will be.
And Jesus, writing in, I believe.
And Jesus, writing in, I believe.
I believe, I believe, I believe, I believe, I believe.
I believe in you.
How can you believe in Jesus today?
Won't you give him some praise?
We serve a God that is more than able.
Now unto him who is more than able to do exceeding,
abundantly, a baffle who can ask for things,
who continue in our worship and sing unto the Lord,
who trust you to depend on the Lord.
The Son, when did I start to forget
all of the great things you did?
And when did I think, oh, wait,
and think for him in possible love?
And how did I start to believe
that you were sufficient for me?
And why do I talk my sick?
How can I forgive you?
How can you believe in God?
You see, that you are more than able.
You see, that you are more than able.
Say it again.
You are more than able.
Oh, here are people today,
but we declare that you are more than able.
So who are you to deny what the Lord can do?
Because it's easy for you.
And now I see more than I have.
Oh, I got my confidence back, yeah.
And I put my trust in the one who still does miracle,
who do miracles.
You are more than able.
We believe in God.
Yes, we trust you, yeah.
You are more than able.
Let's make a round to this place where our God shows.
You are more than able.
You are more than able.
So who are you to deny what the Lord can do?
Can you imagine the glory of the faith in the room?
What the Lord can do?
What the Lord can do?
Yeah, it's gonna happen just like the way we make it through.
It's gonna move, it's gonna move.
Can you imagine with all of the faith in the room?
What the Lord can do?
Yeah, it's gonna happen just like the way we make it through.
It's gonna move, it's gonna move.
Anything is possible with the clergy there.
Anything is possible.
Anything is possible.
So who are you to deny what the Lord can do?
What the Lord can do?
Anything is possible.
Anything is possible.
We believe in you.
Anything is possible.
So who are you to deny what the Lord can do?
Who are you to deny what the Lord can do?
So who are you to deny what the Lord can do?
Yeah, it's easy for you.
I believe in you.
See, you are more than people.
I want you to close your eyes and sing that whole place of faith to sing.
So you are more than people.
You are more than people.
We trust you are.
You are more than people.
Who am I to deny what the Lord can do?
Yes, Jesus.
What a God we serve.
We're gonna sing a new song.
It's called You Keep Hope Alive.
It's very easy.
So I'm gonna teach you first.
It's all proclaiming the hope that is in Jesus.
Because we have hope in Him.
Hope to live for tomorrow.
Hope to stand in this world.
See, day makes me darkest.
But your light is greater.
You will light our way.
God, you will light our way.
And with evil it's rising.
You're rising higher.
We're the power to save.
We're the power to save.
This is all I'm gonna teach you right now.
You keep hope alive.
You keep hope alive.
From the beginning to when your word never fails.
You keep hope alive.
Because you are alive.
Jesus, you are alive.
Death had a strong hope.
And your light is stronger.
You're always strong.
Liberator rose up from the red.
Anybody believe it today.
And with evil it's rising.
You're rising higher.
We're the power to save.
We're the power to save.
Come on, you got that.
Come on, let's show it all together.
You keep hope alive.
You keep hope alive.
From the beginning to when your word never fails.
You keep hope alive.
Because you are alive.
Jesus, you are alive.
We're the power to save.
Death had a strong hope.
And your light is stronger.
You keep hope alive.
Because you're living hope.
Because you're breathing this hope.
In the brave hope.
In the silent hope.
For this moment alone.
Once in a while you'll see there is hope.
Give the morning hope.
In the evening this hope.
Because you're living hope.
Because you're breathing this hope.
In the brave hope.
In the silent hope.
For this moment alone.
For tomorrow.
You keep hope alive.
You keep hope alive.
From the beginning to when your word never fails.
You keep hope alive.
Because you are alive.
Jesus, you are still alive.
You keep hope alive.
You keep hope alive.
From the beginning to when your word never fails.
You keep hope alive.
Because you are alive.
Jesus, you are alive.
Jesus, you are alive.
You keep hope alive.
You keep hope alive.
From the beginning to when your word never fails.
You keep hope alive.
Because you are alive.
Jesus, you are alive.
You are alive.
You are alive.
Don't you rest in it.
I don't have to worry about a thing.
Because you're alive.
You keep hope alive.
You keep hope alive.
In the middle of the storm.
You're standing right there with me.
In the middle of the fire.
You keep hope alive.
Thank you, Lord.
If my grandma was here, she wouldn't sing it like this.
She would sing because she lives.
I can face tomorrow.
Because Jesus lives.
All of my fears, they're gone.
Because I know, I know, I know.
He holds you in His future in life.
It's worth living just because Jesus lives.
It's an old song.
I'm 33, but I got an old soul.
I love those songs.
Can I say one more time?
Just receive it.
Receive it.
Let it encourage your spirit.
You do.
Back in the black church.
We used to sing songs of people and people would get excited because it was the truth.
Because he lives.
I can face tomorrow because Jesus lives.
All my fears, they're gone.
I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I
know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know,
I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I heard, I know,
I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know,
I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know,
I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know,
I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know,
I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know,
I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, I know,
Get off the stage.
Y'all, hey, oh, I love you too.
I love you too.
Y'all, I'm so grateful to be here today.
This is an amazing church.
So glad.
I'm singing with my sister, Brittany, who is Kobe's wife.
And she's singing for the first time in, what, four or five
years?
Jesus.
Me and Kobe and Brittany, we go way back.
We got the same alma mater in Ohio.
And when I got my first job out of college,
I was living with them in Houston, Texas.
And they let me live there like a little brother for free,
just trying to find my way.
Somehow, I got myself out to California because of Kobe.
And it's cool.
Like, in this moment, I've been singing here and there
here now.
We're getting to lead and love God together again.
So I'm so grateful for both of you.
Love you, Kobe.
Don't y'all love Kobe?
I ain't going to say nothing smart this time.
All right.
Well, I love you too.
And why don't you tell some people around you.
I love you.
And then you may have a seat.
Hey, everyone, thanks for joining us today.
We're so glad you're here.
At Harbor Point, giving us more than just a financial
transaction.
It's part of our worship.
It's a tangible, exceptional, and we're
very grateful that you've come here.
And you're here today.
So thank you.
And thanks for joining us.
We're so glad you're here.
At Harbor Point, giving us more than just a financial
transaction.
It's part of our worship.
It's a tangible, exceptional, and it's
an exceptional tour.
It's a tangible expression of our devotion and gratitude to God, demonstrating that our
hearts are centered on Him.
Each week we bring our offerings as an expression of our commitment to God's work in and through
His Church.
Whether this is your first time giving or you're continuing your giving, please take
a look at the various ways you can contribute.
Thank you for your generosity.
We're thrilled to continue our summer series at the Movies.
This year you can enjoy At The Movies at two locations, the Regency Theatre in San Juan
on Sundays at 10am and at Harbor Point for our regular weekend services and don't forget
Encore, bringing our At The Movies experience to Regency Theatre on Thursday nights at 6.30pm.
It's a fantastic opportunity to invite your friends, neighbors, and coworkers.
If you've been a part of Harbor Point for a while, you've heard us say that every good
thing that we do is done through great volunteers, and that's you.
When I think of some of the amazing volunteers, I think of Travis and Tina, who serve so faithfully
on our worship team for Harbor Point's VBS.
We're so grateful for how they gave their time and talents to pour into the next generation.
So if you're already serving at Harbor Point, we would love to say thank you.
Or if you're curious about what it might look like to step into serving, we want to
invite you to our volunteer rally and lunch, Sunday August 18th at 12.45pm.
You can register today through our app or online or through the QR code in front of you.
Men of Harbor Point Man Camp 2024 is just a few weeks away.
This transformative retreat will offer a unique opportunity to step away from the daily life
and connect with God and other men in our community.
You'll experience powerful worship, inspiring messages, and build lasting friendships.
Man Camp will take place at Forest Home from August 23rd to 25th.
As summer comes to a close, student ministries will be holding their end of summer celebrations
over the next couple weeks.
High school will be celebrating with a beach bonfire at Dohini on Thursday, August 15th.
Junior High will be holding their summer celebration here on campus on Thursday, August 22nd.
For more information and to sign up, just scan the QR codes in front of you or go online
to our website.
We would love to see you in person for our at the movie series here at Harbor Point campus
or the Regency Theater, but we thank you so much for joining us online today for our series
on anxiety called A Bag of Angry Bees.
All right, hey everybody, how's it going?
Yeah, you guys chose, you chose the 10 o'clock service.
You love traffic.
You felt like it's raining.
We could get some traffic going to start my week off in the right way.
Just prepare your heart a little challenge immediately, like how am I going to put to
test the fact that I just learned something about Jesus, but to find a parking lot that's
miserable and work my way out of it.
And you did it.
You found it.
Way to go.
Glad you guys made it.
Those of you guys who are in the tent, glad you guys made it.
Those of you in the balcony, I see you guys up there, glad you guys made it as well.
It is so good to be with you guys.
And for those of you guys who are online, of course, we say this every single week.
The best expression of our church is that we get a chance, whenever we get a chance to
be together, because the people of our church are amazing.
And really, you guys are.
I'm really grateful to be with you guys.
So fun.
And I know you had to drive today through a puddle.
You had to activate the all-wheel drive feature on your car.
And you made it.
It's incredible.
So great stuff happened.
And let's get right to it.
We have a lot to cover as we talk about this.
By the way, if you're new with us, I'm Jeff, and I just want to make sure we're clear.
We do not have all the answers.
This is not a church.
We have everything figured out.
Here's what we know.
We're looking at Jesus.
We believe we were made with conviction for life with Jesus, and that requires everybody
to help us along the way.
Everybody's got a next step in that.
So whether you're new, whether you're checking out Jesus, you're investigating the church
or whatever, we are convinced everybody's got a next step to take.
And our hope is that you find this to be a community of people who don't have it all
together.
We're a work in progress kind of people doing that stuff.
So however that is, grateful that you're here.
Let's get right to it.
I'm going to show you a commercial from 1990, and I just want you to notice, just pay attention
as you watch this commercial.
Some of you will recognize it, and if you recognize it, you're an old person, okay?
But I recognize it, it's fine.
But I just want you to notice, I want you to take in all of the anxiety in this commercial.
Check this out, okay?
Here we go.
Mary Clary, thanks for her zipper bags are the best, and we'll never switch to Gladlock
zipper bags.
That's right, never.
And Mary Clary, what do you say we lock you in this phone booth here with either your
bag filled with angry bees or a Gladlock bag filled with angry bees?
See that green color chain seal there, Mary?
That shows you the Gladlock bag is closed.
Your bag doesn't have a green seal.
You know, change is good.
I'll take the Gladlock zipper bag.
Just kidding, Mary.
When it really counts, don't get mad.
Get Gladlock zipper bags.
Okay, some of you remember this commercial.
Now, what I want to, obviously this is, it's a goofy commercial, and I'll help you by over
analyzing it and taking it way too seriously, okay?
That's the gift I bring.
But let's look at this for a moment.
This ad is a question about which bag, it's a question about bag choice.
Which one has a better seal, the yellow and green seal, or the yellow and blue seal, which
makes the green thing, which all of us were convinced we needed back in 1990, and it was
so crucial.
And in fact, as you look at this, this question is about which bag would you rather have hold
the angry bees that we're going to give you?
And secondly, we're going to put you into this phone booth, which you've somehow agreed
to do this.
The whole premise of this whole thing is based on an incredibly disturbing idea that these
people who are making this scenario happen not only have they got bees to give a person
to hold, but also they have the power to convince this person they should get into a phone booth.
And for those of you who don't know what a phone booth is, it's like an elevator that
doesn't go anywhere.
That's all that it is.
It's the same thing.
It's not a phone, but it's in a tiny little space and nobody else joins you in there.
But in any event, they have this power to lock this person into a phone booth to which
they're agreeing to do.
And the whole question, the whole, how is this okay with everybody?
How is she not like, why don't you just take all the bees and go away?
I don't want to do any of this.
I don't care what bag you use.
I'm not doing this.
This whole thing is stupid.
The power dynamic, everything, like I'm going to convince her and we're going to lock her
in this thing.
How is she not just like, no, I'm not doing that?
The question is, and why are people saying yes to this?
The question over the whole scenario, which again, I realize I'm taking it too seriously.
The question is, well, who's in charge here?
Who thought this was a good idea?
Who thought this would be okay?
Who gets bees and then makes them angry by shaking them and handing them to a person
and says, then we're going to lock you in a phone booth.
The whole thing is bizarre and absurd and who's in charge here?
Now that question, who's in charge here, is a critical question when it comes to anxiety.
Who's in charge here?
We're in week two of a series called the bag of angry bees and it's a series on anxiety
because nothing really kind of captures the idea of anxiety like a bag of angry bees.
But I want to catch us up a little bit.
If you weren't here last week and make sure we're all in the same sort of playing field
as we talk about this idea of anxiety, one of the things we said last week was this,
is that we have to differentiate between fear and anxiety.
Fear is the response to something that has happened, like bear, person with a knife coming
after us.
Oh my gosh, that's fear.
Anxiety is what if there's a bear, what if we go there and there's a person with a knife?
That's anxiety.
Are you with me?
One's anticipating a thing, one is responding to a particular thing.
And we said that generally what happens when we're talking about anxiety is that the thing
that's happening or even the thing that's a concern is a reasonable concern but in anxiety
we take that up to an unreasonable response level or an unreasonable sort of anticipation
level.
Are you with me?
Now, we also said this, it's so important to keep in mind that all anxieties have something
in common.
Anxiety is really about having a low tolerance for uncertainty.
It's about a low tolerance for things that are not certain.
And for those of us who have anxiety, we know people that do, we know that statistically
all of us know someone who is suffering from some form of anxiety.
It's one in three teenagers and one in five adults, this is the statistics, most current
statistics on this, which means you work with people, know people, you live next to someone,
you have someone in your house perhaps, or you yourself as someone who has anxiety.
And as we talk about it, more than likely depending on how you grew up or where you
grew up or what kind of healthy environment you might have encountered, some of you got
the experience of, or at least the impression that if you do have anxiety, the best solution
is simply as people have told us or we've understood is simply snap out of it.
Just stop having anxiety, just stop, just don't, just get over it.
It's a thing, sure, but be really great at doing stuff, compensate by being high functioning
and just live in society with this thing and never really deal with it because you shouldn't
have to deal with it, just snap out of it.
And some of us got the impression, either by our own thinking or because someone told
us, we were told, here's what you should do.
Just find some people in the world who have greater anxiety than you, and then by comparison
you won't care anymore.
You know, there's conflict in the Middle East, yeah, it's pretty anxious for those people.
Yeah, so I guess I don't get to deal with mine, which never really deals with either
of the anxieties, in either case.
And if you're a person who grew up in the church and you talk to a person who's like,
you know, like you had enough courage to tell a person who's a Jesus follower who maybe
they're a little misguided, but you're like, hey, I just want to let you know I'm suffering
from something I think is anxiety or maybe depression.
And they were like, I have a Bible verse for you, don't be anxious about anything.
Thank you so much.
And they're like, well, don't be anxious, but in everything, in every situation by prayer
and petition with Thanksgiving, present your request to God.
And you're just like, well, I don't know what you're supposed to do with that.
I guess I'm not supposed to have this because the solution to having anxiety is apparently
just don't.
And if I don't know how to deal with that, then I have to kind of hide it away and deal
with it as a shame thing because I'm not supposed to have it.
And so it never really gets dealt with at all.
The truth is, all of us have some question about anxiety at some level.
And here's what we know, that if a person with anxiety was to answer this question, who's
in charge?
A person who's suffering from anxiety, if they were asked the question, hey, who's in
charge?
What they would say is, and again, I'm paraphrasing, but to say it this way, my feelings or my
thoughts are in charge.
I'm not in charge.
Not me.
I'm not in charge.
And this is where it starts.
This is where anxiety begins to become kind of an issue.
In other words, probably another way to say it is this.
Anxiety has a double effect.
There's the anxiety that we feel, and then there's the way we feel about our anxiety,
to say it this way.
I'm freaking out about freaking out.
And this is why people get stuck in it.
It's not just that I'm freaking out as if that was enough.
It's that now I have anxiety about my anxiety, like what am I supposed to do with this thing
when I can't control and all of it starts to spiral and you maybe have this experience
or do you know people who do?
And here's what I want to do today.
I want to give us one tool.
It's not the answer to everything.
It doesn't solve all the anxiety.
It's just one really underutilized, very accessible tool that also requires a pretty
significant amount of courage as well.
It's just going to, and just again, to make sure we reiterate, I'm not an expert.
Someone told you we're doing a series on anxiety.
You might have thought you're like, maybe you're new and you're like, I'm not sure
about Jesus, but I will come hear that and you thought, they told you I'm an expert on
this.
I'm not a therapist.
This is not my degree.
I'm a fellow traveler in this.
I do a little bit of research on some stuff.
I'm looking at the Bible when it comes to this sort of thing.
My wife and I walk through our own anxiety, different journeys.
But I do want to point to some ways of addressing anxiety today.
And it's kind of a next step building on what we did last week.
But I also want to tell you this, fair warning.
The way we're going to get to this one tool is a very windy road.
Some of you are familiar with the way that I do this sometimes.
I don't appreciate the laughter.
It's fine.
It's fine.
But you're going to be like, what in the world are we doing?
And then I promise I will bring it back home.
But you're going to wonder for a little bit, because I'm going to start in a place you
may not expect.
And then we're going to get there.
So I'm going to start in ancient Near Eastern temple construction, because that's where
you thought I was going to go.
Right in here.
That's where we'll start.
Here's what we're going to do.
I'm totally serious.
Ancient Near Eastern temple construction.
Here's what happens.
The first of the phases starts like this.
It's the boundary making of a particular thing.
Here's where things are.
Here's where things are.
This separates the sacred space from the not-sacred space, boundary making.
Then after things are sort of put up, there's some filling of things and some further separation
of things.
There's either, sometimes there's interior spaces which are separated from other spaces.
All this is pretty typical in the Ancient Near East.
And the sixth phase of the temple construction, whatever it is, whatever god that's being
worshipped there, a statue typically is placed within there on the sixth phase.
So there's typically a six or seven day phase of this sort of creation, sort of this creation
of a temple.
And on the sixth phase, this is when the statue is placed into the temple to give people
an idea of what god is going to be worshipped in that temple.
Now there are six days, there's a seven day creation, but there's a six day creation
narrative in the Bible.
Let me show you what happens on the sixth day of creation.
So god created mankind in his own image and the image of god, he created them male and
female.
This is the sixth day of creation.
Now let me pause right here for a second.
What's being said by this, many scholars agree, that the whole cosmos, by looking at the creation
narrative in the Bible, which some of you are like, I'm not sure I'm buying into that
yet, that's okay, don't worry about it, just stay with me on this, that the whole cosmos,
the Bible will say, is god's temple, the entire thing.
No temple could contain him, so the whole cosmos is his temple and instead of a statue
on the sixth phase of the creation, sixth day, it's a person, people become the representation
of this god in his temple, the whole cosmos.
But the people aren't just a decoration, there's more, verse 28.
God blessed them and said to them, be fruitful and increase in number and fill the earth
and subdue it, some translations, and have dominion over it.
Rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the sky and over every living creature
that moves on the ground.
So the people aren't just simply decoration, there's more there, they're blessed and they're
told to multiply and have dominion and the answer to the question, who's in charge of
all of the created stuff?
The answer is, people are.
People are supposed to have dominion over to subdue this creation.
In fact, the only thing to which people are supposed to be subject to is God himself.
Other than that, they're supposed to be over all of these things.
It's a gift to Genesis chapter two, where it gets a little bit more specific about some
of this stuff.
Verse 19, now the Lord God had formed out of the ground all the wild animals and all
the birds of the sky, and he brought them to the man to see what he would name them.
And whatever the man called each living creature, that was its name.
So the man gave names to all the livestock, the birds in the sky and all the wild animals.
Notice what's happening here, there's something about this man, this created, this image of
God placed into this whole cosmos, which now has this responsibility to name everything.
Again, this might be a challenge for some of you, like I'm not sure I believe, just
stay with the point of what's happening here, because here's what's happening in naming.
Naming is a very crucial thing in the Bible.
Now what happens in all naming, now at least of which the Bible is this, the first thing
that happens is this, there is a differentiation from a thing.
So when someone names a thing, it says, this is a that and I'm not that.
That's not me.
Over there is that, I can separate that thing, whatever it is, from me, that's separate from
me.
Those are animals, I'm not, that's animals, I'm me, does that make sense?
This is differentiation, you're different than me, that's what's being said, when we
name a thing.
Secondly, what happens in naming is sort of an authority over.
Probably better said is it implies they're taking responsibility for a thing.
So the naming of a thing not only creates a differentiation, I'm not that, that's not
me, but it also implies some level of authority over the thing being named.
This is why if you have ever read the Hebrew scripture, the Hebrew Bible, the Old Testament,
the Old Covenant, part of what you get in that part of the Bible is you get this really
interesting kind of conversation about names.
Not least of which is the name of God, which is kind of, if you read Moses' interaction
with God in the burning bush story, perhaps you've heard of that story before, but one
of the things Moses keeps asking God is cool, what do I tell people your name is as if to
say, because it's a secret thing that never gets really totally disclosed.
It's so unbelievably important and sacred, in fact, to this day.
You will find very observant Jews who will not refer to God even by the name God, they'll
refer to God as this word, Hashem, who is in that word simply means the name.
Like we can't even, we don't even want to whisper, say the name of God, because it's
so holy, it would contain him and he is beyond containment, so the word simply to describe
God is just the name.
Names are crucial.
Names have all sorts of relevance in the Bible, but you know this, even nicknaming has rules.
Some of you have nicknames, you had a nickname growing up, maybe you still go by that nickname,
maybe introduce yourself as a particular name, maybe you know like, but there's some
rules that go along with that, you know that there's rules about that.
Now the first rule of nicknaming is, you don't get to choose your own nickname, you don't
get to decide, like I don't get to say, you guys just want to let you know, now I'm going
by MacGyver, kind of rhymes with McGuire, plus the guy could build a glider out of, you know,
like the gum and like a, you know, rubber band and he could like, oh look, let's fly
away and escape.
He never used a gun, he just, as long as he had like a, like a scuba tank, he could save
the world, you know, I was like, that's, that's me, I'm going by McGuire, you guys
are coming by McGyver now, woo, I'm just going, you know that doesn't work, that's not how
it goes, you can't choose your nickname, you don't get to choose it, it has to be bestowed
upon you, and the way it always works is sort of a top-down method, either the leader, the
group of a person is like, you're now this, or the group decides, hey we've decided you're
going by this nickname, you'll get to choose it, you can't declare it, it's what we've
all decided because it's a top-down method, it's the way it works, it never gets to be
the other way, it's always sort of top-down, the power group is sort of ascribing a nickname
to a person, and there's always, it tends to be, not always, but tends to be a moment
of like kind of mockery that's based in truth a little bit, like it's sort of a little bit
funny but it's based in truth, it always sort of connects, there's a dotted line to that,
you know, so I can never figure out, even to this day, why my 12-year-old soccer coach
called me lanky, I can't figure out what the truth was in there, I don't really know, that's
weird, anyway, so anyway, where was I going, now, nicknaming, you don't get to choose your
own name, right, you guys watch Seinfeld and maybe you saw George try to be called T-Bone
and never really kind of panned out for him, the top-down method is how this works, remember
this, this is going to matter in a second, and there's always an element of sort of truth
and mockery that kind of goes with nicknaming, we know this stuff, now, in Luke chapter 8,
Jesus encounters a man, this man is what we would call demonized, he's possessed by a
demon, and what you see with this man is he's naked, he's living in the tombs, he doesn't
have a house, he's all by himself, now, important side note, in our sort of secularized, late
modern world, we have a tendency to do something when it comes to the idea of demonization
or demon possession, couple of different things, one of the things we tend to think, looking
back into the Bible as we go, look, they don't have sophisticated psychological analysis,
anytime anybody had something sort of, some sort of mental illness, they would just naturally
ascribe it to demon, oh, that's a demon, that's what that is, and I just want to say, you
might be right, but I also want to just propose something else, the Bible does talk about
a spiritual dimension of reality that is beyond even what we kind of know and experience on
a regular ongoing basis and sort of are visible, or there's an unseen world of things that
are happening, and I also want to say that mental illness is not necessarily demonic,
people who suffer from mental illness aren't necessarily being demonized, so to speak,
and yet there is still in the Bible this description of things that where demons, spirit beings
are at work against what God is trying to do, and here's what I just want to say, the
one does not exclude the other, there is mental illness that they don't know how to diagnose
back in the first century, and there is also demonic activity that's also at work, so I
just want to make sure we're all clear on that, are we okay moving forward with this?
Okay, good, here we go, now here's the scene, Luke 8, 26, they sailed to the regions of
the Jeresians which is across the lake from Galilee, so this is in the northern part of
Israel, there's two big lakes, there's the Sea of Galilee and then there's the Dead Sea,
Dead Sea's way bigger, but the Sea of Galilee's much more important because things live there,
and on the opposite side of the lake, which literally sometimes is just called the other
side, this is where people don't go very often, but when Jesus stepped ashore, he was met by a
demon-possessed man from the town. For a long time this man had not worn clothes or lived in a
house, but had lived in the tombs, this is going to come up again, this is this person who lives
by himself naked in the tombs, and this man runs up to Jesus, and when he saw Jesus he cried out
and fell at his feet shouting at the top of his voice, what's important to keep in mind. When you
see this, and the story's also in Mark chapter 5, you can read this story, and one of the things
that's crucial when you see it is there's always this really difficult distinction between, it's
hard to tell whether the demon is speaking or the guy is speaking, who's talking here, is the
demon or is it the guy, what I want you to see is I think that's kind of important to kind of
keep it, it's important to like know that that is confusing sort of on purpose, okay, with me.
Now, when he saw Jesus he cried out and fell at his feet shouting at the top of his voice, what do
you want with me Jesus, Son of the Most High God, I beg you don't torture me. So this is such an
interesting kind of encounter, some scholars will say that this elaborate naming by this demon
is an attempt to gain control over Jesus, which of course fails miserably because he doesn't know
rule number two, it's a top-down model, you can't, Jesus is over everything, you can't do this,
this is what's going to be shown in a moment here, but there's this this sort of crying out of
Jesus's name as an attempt perhaps to gain control over him, verse 29, for Jesus had commanded the
impure spirit to come out of the man, this is what's sort of like an out-of-order sentence, like the
reason why this guy is saying this is because of this, so Luke is recording what happened, he's
like the reason why this spirit is crying out to Jesus, don't torture us or whatever, is because
of this right here, for Jesus had commanded the impure spirit to come out of the man,
and many times it had seized him and though he was chained hand and foot and kept under guard,
he had broken his chains and had been driven by the demon into solitary places, let's pause here
for a second, so often what a flicks people drives them into isolation and loneliness,
so often what a flicks people drives them to isolation and loneliness, it isn't that the man
was like, oh man, I feel like I got a thing, I got a ghost, it's that the thing itself drove him
into the solitary places to be alone, then Jesus asked him, what is your name?
Legion, he replied, because many demons had gone into him, the word Legion to talk about a Roman
Legion is about roughly five to six thousand Roman soldiers, so the idea of this means that there's
a ton of demonic activity in this particular person, what is your name? The question that's
being asked here is who's in charge, things are out of control, Jesus steps in and he is clearly
taking control of the moment, and Jesus doesn't need the name of the demon which is sort of to
fly in the face of the whole idea here, the demon actually, and the demon gets no control over Jesus
because of, you know, he's able to like name him, what's being said here is that there is in fact
Jesus who is all, he is over the whole thing and takes control of the moment, and then there's this
tragic comic kind of thing that happens next is that the demon does get cast out, but it gets
cast out into a herd of pigs which are nearby apparently, and then the pigs run into a lake
and drown, that's the story, they're like we're possessed, and they drown, that's it, I mean
that was a galloping pig by the way, if those of you guys are wondering that's what galloping pigs
look like, and they run away and they drown, now the question that you have which is a fair question
is what does this have to do with anybody's anxiety, let me tell you, one of the things that
happens in anxiety is this, one of the things that occurs in anxiety is that there tends to be a
fusion, a linking and overlapping between the thing that's afflicting a person who suffers
from anxiety or depression and that person themselves, they make it their identity, it's
one of the most tragic things that happens, one of the things that Amanda pointed out to me in
her own anxiety, her own anxiety journey, this is my wife, she said, I realized I had to stop
just being, like I just sort of made my anxiety, who I'm an anxious person, I'm just anxious, I'm
always anxious, I'm anxious, she finally had to realize maybe that wasn't the way I was supposed,
maybe I wasn't made, God didn't make me anxious, this was something that was a problem that
needed to be addressed, fusing the two things together, Curtis Chang and his book which I
mentioned before and I think we have a couple of copies in the lobby if you want to read them or
take one, borrow one, you can borrow one, you steal it, we'll know, no just kidding, but if you
want to borrow it it's fine, but we have a couple, his book's great but here's one of the things he
says to this very effect, when we have been, notice the language, mentally abducted by anxiety
for extended periods, I love the language, we identify so thoroughly with the anxious thoughts
that our minds fuse with these thoughts, the more we rehearse an anxious narrative, the more we
play it over and over and over again, we talked about this last week about ruminating, the more we
rehearse an anxious narrative, the more we become indistinguishable from the narrative, whoa,
the more we repeat the thing over and over in our heads, the more we become indistinguishable
from that narrative, such that we cannot abandon those thoughts and this mental fusion can be so
complete we sometimes don't even recognize that we've been hijacked, in other words when we start
having anxious thoughts that we keep playing over and over and over again in our heads and it starts
to fuse with our identity, we have trouble differentiating, you can see where this is going,
we need a way to separate our identity from the affliction that is upon us and find a way to rein
it in, so here's what we need to do, name it, name it, we have to call the thing whatever the
thing is we have to call it what it is so that we can separate it from ourselves, here's what Curtis
Chang says once again, when we can name our thoughts we recognize them as distinct from us
differentiation, we're meant to recognize our anxious thoughts as things that they may roam in
our minds but they're not us in our entirety, something distinct from us, differentiation,
there's a critical difference between a thought present within us and a thought becoming us,
when I named my anxious thoughts he says, I began to experience a sense of authority over them,
the more I could stand outside my anxious thoughts, observe them and label them,
the more those thoughts began to lose their power to terrify, the more I watched those thoughts
with detached observation and not engagement and the more I said, oh I recognize you,
the more the anxious thoughts faded away, so let's call it what it is, we've got to name it,
we've got to name it and the question you have which is a fair question is, how do I name it,
I just feel like I'm freaking out, I don't know how to name this thing, what am I supposed to do
with it and I just want to tell you again we're just going to look at kind of this is the very
beginning stages of stuff but let's just talk about this for a moment, one of the most helpful
ways to figure out where you might have anxiety is to do this, is to find where there is friction in
your life, where are things not going smoothly, where's their friction, in other words take a
different way, can you identify a pattern in your life where you're regularly agitated,
afraid, etc, where there's probably a disproportionate response to a particular thing,
for instance if you're going through Del Taco and you're like they give you the wrong hot sauce
and you're like that's a bummer they gave me the wrong hot sauce, I want a del scorcho and they
gave me regular old lame hot sauce and you're like that's a bummer, that's an appropriate response,
if you're like they didn't give me del scorcho I'm burning the place down,
by the way that's a serious offense when you don't get del scorcho okay but I'm just saying
that there's a moment where you're like that my response should be a two but it feels like it's
a 12, this is probably where you're going maybe there's something in here where I'm trying to
figure out what's going on here, there's a pattern where I'm overreacting it should be a two and I'm
giving it a 12 out of 10, something's a problem here and there's different triggering events for
all of us and they're all different kinds of scales, for me confession okay, I have to be very
very careful anytime I'm in any kind of competition with my children
because there's a part of me and I've told you guys this before that if you're with us last week
I said the thing that I've been naming recently over the course of my life is that what's been
chasing me is this right here being a disappointment and being irrelevant these are the things that
come up with now in a competition anytime you can seem incompetent or be a loser not just lose
but be a loser it's right into this stuff so I have a level of intensity with my own kids in
competition which is really I have to measure and some things I can't do whether it's like doing
things that's like an activity we do together like surfing it's like my kids are all better
surfers than me by a long shot but I'm like you know I just I'm frustrated that I'm not as good as
they are they're in there like my oldest is 20 he lives like it goes to school right next to the
beach he serves constantly he goes to school in a wetsuit sometimes I'm like what's wrong with the
world anyway but he does that he's awesome and my other kids are incredible all the things they do
and I'm like I'm out and it's like I'm making it a competition and I have to win we're playing
cards we're playing horse and how much does it matter if I'm like playing horse with my son how
important is it that I win crucial is the answer to that question but it should be a two and it's
a 12 why does it matter I have to be very careful with these things where's their friction name it
you have to find some of the friction is probably one of the most helpful things you can do but
there's another layer to this and this is where it gets even a little bit more difficult and it's
nonetheless crucial and by the way I have to apologize in advance is where I give you this
okay I'm gonna show you it in a second it rhymes okay and I always am afraid when it rhymes like
oh gosh we just packaged this up in a little neat little thing and there's probably a little
slight little tiny if you look closely a little tm on the top right of the circle around it like
trademark there's nothing I just want to make sure I want you to make sure you remember it
but for those of you guys that have a high like really sensitive cheese meter this is gonna set
you off okay it's very cheesy but it's really crucial okay so bear with me okay you guys you
guys ready for I think you can handle this okay so not only are we finding the friction where is
there this ongoing sort of pattern where I'm overreacting to certain things but bear with me
you probably what is more crucial than that is to find the fiction behind the friction I do not
appreciate that sir because behind every single anxiety is a perfect lie behind every anxiety
that we feel is a near perfect lie like wow that makes so much sense that I would have anxiety about
a particular thing and the thing that people that you may not be you but people that are around you
that might suffer from anxiety they're believing a particular lie that's being rehearsed over and
over again in their head and it's nearly perfect and the question we have to ask which is a very
courageous question which may require actual therapy you might have to go to a person who
can help you uncover this stuff but the point is there is 99 percent I'm gonna go 100 percent okay
there's a fiction behind this friction which is causing you anxiety there is a perfect lie behind
it and to ask the question where is the lie that's fueling this kind of anxiety is crucial
behind the anxiety is a particular lie I showed you kind of my own thing that's chasing me down
and it's a lie let me give you some things to think about if you if you're having trouble kind of
identifying it this is not going to answer every question but maybe some of these you might connect
with okay here if blank happens it means I've lost control and when I lose control the whole world
goes it just whatever I just I have to be in control and if something happens it means I've
lost control it could be any number of things for you in can be small and it can be big it can be I
I'm late for dropping my kids off for school I'm late for picking up it could be I'm late for school
it could be if I screw up a homework assignment that I'm supposed to turn in it could be if I don't
connect with these people if I mess up my own if I don't get on Instagram enough times I don't see
these things it means I've lost control some of you might have this scenario there won't there
won't be enough I know what will happen there's just not going to be enough blank filling whatever
you want there money attention affection love I know that if I say yes to this now then there
won't be enough later or if this person says yes to this in my life there's only a certain there's
like a pie of the amount of whatever it is that I need and if they take a slice it's going to be
one less thing available for me or for anybody else or just won't be enough of whatever it is
you can maybe that's you some of you have this if I can't blank well whatever it is I'll be alone
if I can't do well as a student if I don't perform well at my job if I'm not a good friend if I
don't appear wonder if I don't do beauty well if I don't do personal health and fitness well
if I don't do living the California life well then I'll be all alone and people won't want me
that may be you some people have this one just connects with a lot of people
things are going so great but now what like I know everything's awesome but that only means
there's an impending doom right around the corner I feel like things are going great my
friendships are great maybe you're single and you got all your crew of friends you're like we're
getting along great and we have this community of people that we get to be around and it's so amazing
it's all gonna go it's something's gonna happen immediately maybe you're a person who's got a
mom group and you're all hanging out things are incredible you've got your kids and your marriages
are incredible and you're like it's just a it's a matter of time for everything goes away there's
going to be a disease there's going to be a volcano there's going to be something that
swallows us up we're all going to die I just know it there'll be a puddle on the way to church I mean
you know you never know a lot of people have this things are going great but they can't forever
just waiting for the thing the house of cards to fall that's an anxiety some people have this
that there's a sense that I'll never be understood no matter what I do however I try to communicate
who I am I'll never be fully understood which is a matter of being not loved and being alone once
again I just cannot be an understood person and this is leaving me in a particular kind of anxious
state some people have this what if we what if I or we never get through blank we're a tough
patch in our marriage I'm in a deep spot of loneliness in my own life I want to meet the
I want to meet Mr. Right I want to meet Mrs. Right I want to be I want to be I want to be around
these bad what if I I but like I'm in this tough spot of loneliness and I can't get through it and
what if I don't get through what if we never get through it what if the tough spot of my marriage
or the disease or the illness I never get through it what if that never happens what I'm just preparing
myself to never get through because I don't see the light at the end of the tunnel so what if I never
get through it. All of these things generate all kinds of fiction behind the
things that we're worried about and they generate for us a kind of anxiety about
this stuff and for some of you it may not be you like I said you may not be the
person who's got anxiety you may have a high tolerance for uncertainty and all
that kind of stuff but you probably live with people and you're like why are they
reacting like a 12 when it should be a 2 because there's probably a fiction
behind it that's generating that sort of thing. Now what do we do with that? Now
this is really important depending this what we do with that depends really
crucially on your own impression of how you perceive Jesus. You with me? Some of
you are like look I'm okay with Jesus I came because you're talking about anxiety
there's some cool stuff but I just want to tell you this is there's a dimension
that we're gonna talk about here which is so important to like understanding
what it is to walk with Jesus because there's a spiritual dimension to faith
it is not just practical help for all these kinds of things you go lots of
places to get that this is and we're okay with that by the way we're church
we're kind of okay with Jesus but I want to try to give you a sense of what we
talk about next that is gonna push this a little further and I think it's
probably what for some of you may be like an invitation to step into something
you've not yet considered but here's what I want to do remember when you look
back at this story Jesus with this demonized person this man who's naked
in the tombs it's Jesus who extracts the name of the demon Jesus doesn't need the
name to be able to take control which is really important to keep in mind but
Jesus extracts the name of the demon the demon says his own name Legion the guy
doesn't do it the demons one who drove him into isolation he's the demon he's
the naked demon guy living in the tombs doesn't live at home anymore and even the
guy couldn't name the thing Jesus has to draw it out of this person and maybe for
you when it comes to naming some of this stuff you actually need some
supernatural assistance to do it you actually need this is what Jesus really
can do and the inner stuff all this stuff it's hard requires courage and
humility and this is perhaps an invitation for us to consider today
let's go back to Philippians 4 6 and 7 do not be anxious about anything but in
every situation by prayer and petition with Thanksgiving present request to
God and the peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your
hearts and your minds and Christ Jesus what's so crucial to keep in mind is
every anxious person loves the second part of that the peace of God which
transcends understanding we all want that everybody even if you're not an
anxious person like that sounds great the peace of God which is beyond even my
understanding I want that but what I want to do today is this during everything
in mind I want to focus on this part of that verse prayer and petition when most
of us think about prayer we think about petition which is asking for a
particular thing petition means I'm asking for particularly you know it's
like it's the language of petitions in the First Amendment that we write to
petition the government is part of what's in there like that's actually
gets to ask for a particular thing to make something to make a request a formal
request of a thing which is part of what's being described here in fact even
it says make your request known to God but there's also something else there it
says prayer and petition which they're under the same umbrella but there's
something different about the two things which is worth thinking about because
for a lot of us all we think about is prayers while I ask God for stuff and
then hope he delivers and I'm ready for a couple different answers you know like
maybe you heard that growing up it's like yes you can have what you want no
you can't or you just have to wait around a little while it's like that's
all we know about prayer and I just want to say that there's there's a
beautiful part to that but I just want to kind of expand it a little bit
broader than that because maybe in prayer what we get to do is to seek God to do
something that's beyond asking him for stuff or to just simply solve a thing
one of the things we get to do in prayer is actually to ask God to reveal
something to us about us which means we're not asking we're just listening
in effect here's what the psalmist writes in Psalm 139 these famous words
search me God and know my heart test me and know my anxious thoughts see if
there is any offensive some translations have the word hurtful way in me and lead
me in the way everlasting like there is some way through the anxiety to be led
in an everlasting and eternal kind of life not just forever like someday far
away but right now in the present to say it differently again another rhyming
thing please buckle your seatbelt I apologize but you need this okay stay
with me all healing whether it's like a medical like you broke your foot you
got an ear infection you got a heart condition all healing begins with
revealing we have to sort of come to grips with the thing that we're facing
so that it can be addressed this is part of the naming process right and
it's scary because we have to see it for what it is so here's what I'm gonna do
I'm gonna give you a prayer it is a two-word prayer you can practice it
whenever you want however you want I'm gonna give you a rundown on how to do
it right now in a second but it's a two-word prayer that requires some
courage and it's different for a lot of you that maybe you haven't yet understood
what prayer is and here's what it looks like you ready search me search me there's
something that needs to be revealed to me that I can't find on my own to be
named so that I can differentiate it from myself and I need God to reveal it
in me with tenderness with care not with shame not with condemnation but with
love that gets drawn out so that in mind let's pray I'm gonna give you a moment
just as your eyes are closed to sit in the stillness of this if there is a
contrast between the loudness and the voices of anxiety it must be stillness
and silence Jesus search me
search me Jesus that I might find where there's friction
search me Jesus to uncover the lie the fiction that's undergirding that friction
when I can't name them what you name them my anxious thoughts Jesus
will you lead me in the way ever-lasting
Father would you hear us now as we just simply say in our own response to you
in the stillness that we are so rarely do we find it in our lives would you hear
your name the name that rescues that breaks through into the darkness Jesus
Jesus it is in your name that we pray Jesus amen
please bring it all to be the storm surrounding me
let it break and your name still call us it is still the rage you need is still
every way
and your name Jesus Jesus you make the darkness true
Jesus Jesus silence fear Jesus Jesus you make the darkness true
Jesus Jesus
we call these bones to live and call these lungs to sing once again
I will praise Jesus Jesus you make the darkness true
Jesus Jesus the silence fear Jesus Jesus you make the darkness true
Jesus Jesus you make the darkness true Jesus Jesus the silence fear Jesus Jesus
you make the darkness true Jesus Jesus Jesus Jesus you make the darkness
true Jesus Jesus you silence fear Jesus Jesus you make the darkness true Jesus Jesus
would you do this would you just stand together one of the things that you probably heard me say
this before if you've been around which is when we're singing we're setting our collective
prayer to music that's all we're doing and there's some real power in the prayer of people
being uttered at the same time in the same place there's something that happens in that
and I don't know how to explain it I just know that it does and so all I want us to do
is to maybe just to raise a little bit of our voices to sing that one more time together
and I'll close out our time so would you lead us in that
we sing Jesus Jesus you make the darkness true Jesus Jesus the silence fear Jesus Jesus
you make the darkness true Jesus Jesus would you hold out your hands and would you just
receive this blessing where there is darkness that needs to tremble you can call in the name
of Jesus might you experience the light that he intends to bring into the darkness of anxiety
and depression and loneliness and isolation may you have the courage to utter the phrase
this week to God search me and know my anxious thoughts see if there's a hurtful way inside
of me and lead me in the way everlasting whatever you're up against may you know may it be conferred
upon you the love of the Father the grace of the Son and the fellowship and comfort of
the Holy Spirit in Jesus name so good to be with you amen so great to be together we'll
see you guys later
