 Well, I feel like we need a drum roll because this is the very first podcast for Homeward with Jim Burns. And I am so excited that you are a part of this. Just delighted you're listening to this. Today we're going to be talking about have serious fun in your marriage. And guess what? Even if you're not married, it's important to know this kind of content. You know, years ago when I was actually writing my PhD dissertation, I did traits of a healthy family. That's what I studied. And I was shocked at one of the number one traits. And it was play, fun, laughter. And I just didn't see that. I didn't even think about that. So again, pretty crazy. But today we're going to talk about this in a big way. And I've heard people even say the couple that prays together stays together. And by the way, I believe that. But also the couple that plays together, I believe stays together. And I'll just tell you, we have a chance to get Ted Cunningham. We had for a first guest, there was no one else I wanted. I was going to wait for Ted. And I'm so excited to have Ted Cunningham with me today. He's the pastor of Woodland Hills Family Church in Branson, Missouri. He is also on the date night comedy tour. And I guess that means he's funny. You'll have to decide if he is or not. Ted serves also as a lead marriage coach for the American Association of Christian Counselors. He's read some, he's read, he's written some great books. And today we're going to have a conversation about a book that he's written that I love. And it's called A Love That Laughs. He's married to the wonderful, beautiful Amy Cunningham. And they've got two children. Amy laughs at his jokes still because I sat behind her once. The two kids smirk. Okay, Ted, thanks so much for being with us. I am so happy that you are with us. I'm so pleased. Well, you're happy and I am honored. This is a treat for me. Thanks for having me. Well, so good. I want to get right into it. You have a quote that actually is one of my favorite quotes, and it's a quote by Leonard Sweet. But it says this, it says, and it's in your book, A Love That Laughs, is it says for a marriage to sing and dance for two people to make beautiful music together, they need to play, not work at their marriage. Now, in your book, you said choose laughter, fun and attention over hard work. A lot of people talk about work hard at your marriage. You're saying choose laughter, fun and attention. Talk about that. Yeah. So we all teach the principle that what was natural early on needs to be intentional later on. And laughter early on in a marriage, in a relationship, in dating, engagement, all that is easy. It's like breathing. But as the years go on and duty and responsibility kick in, you find yourself letting those moments slip by. You don't look for it anymore when you do see it. You don't point it out. And you know, it's why most all of the online dating sites, you know, people check the box at the top that says I'm looking for someone with a sense of humor. I'm wanting someone who's going to live on the lighter side of life. That doesn't mean they're going to tell me jokes every day, but they're able to laugh at themselves and invite me in. And so I just think that's that's like breathing early on. And after you've been married a few decades, you got to get back to to being intentional with it. And so and that's just a much better word for me than telling people, especially young people, marriage is hard to difficult. It's painful. It's going to suck the life right out of you. So it's interesting. You said that I remember a wonderful woman who actually lives in Colorado now, but she was she was a writer for me when I was on doing the radio show and she got engaged. And when she walked into my office and told me she was engaged, I gave her a hug. I said, I am so excited for you. It's so great. And she started to cry. I said, why are you crying? She goes, because for the last two days, everybody just looks at me and goes, it's so hard. That's not what you really want to do. You just got to get. Yeah, exactly. That's what she was getting. So, you know, so I totally get that. Now, there may be a person listening that says, yeah, easy for you to talk about laughter. But, you know, my husband, my wife, you know, they're grumpy, they're crabby, they're negative. And and we don't have a lot of fun in our marriage. What do you do if that person wants that? But they don't think they can get it from their spouse. I hear it all the time after events. I'm not funny. I don't I don't walk on the lighter side. Life's too serious and I've been through too much. But there's that moment where I feel like you kind of crack the shell a little bit to where they're going. You know, but I I do need to to find it in this season. We always think that this season or stage of life, we can't enjoy it, but it awaits us in the next one. We'll find joy and laughter and fun in the next one. And it's like, no, it's in this one. You just got to mine for the nuggets like you have to go after it. And again, I'm not talking about turning every spouse into a comedian. My desire is that you when you say something dumb, do something stupid, you're able to shake your head and go, I can't believe I did that. I can't believe I said that and enrolled with it. Yeah, yeah. You know, it's funny, I remember a time years ago with Kathy and I, probably at the beginning of our marriage, and we had been in a pretty intense discussion. Is that what you call it? If it's an argument, but you don't want to call it an argument. But we've been a pretty intense discussion in the bed. And it's not beds are not for that. It's for sleeping and doing other stuff that we'll talk about. And and for some reason, something hit us funny. And we started laughing. And we I mean, it was a giggle craze. And then the next thing I knew, you know what? We weren't even mad at each other anymore. We had this connection. And sometimes it's even going and playing. I find that a lot of times that people just say, hey, let's go to a comedy and watch a movie that's a comedy. Let's if we like tennis, go play tennis. If you like to go for a walk, go for a walk. But having intentional times of doing that really can sometimes break a closed spirit. You talk in your book about well, in some ways, what you're saying is it's the mental benefits, the relational benefits, emotional benefits, even physical benefits of laughter. Talk about that in terms of a couple. Yeah. So the first one I always like to point out is that laughter helps us learn. It's why you and I use humor when we speak. We just know if you can get someone laughing, they're going to absorb a little bit more. You know, when I was, you know, at home with a three and a five year old, I'm an empty nester now, but a three and a five year old, I didn't pull a whiteboard into the kitchen and start charting out books of the Bible to teach them deep truths. We got on the floor and you played Legos with them or you played house with your daughter. You know, so that's what laughter is for adults. We got to remember that it's play. It allows us to to just loosen up a little bit. It also helps us cope. That's a big benefit. And we can go through difficult seasons and stages. But I love that quote by Henry Ward Beecher that says, you know, a person without a sense of humor is like a wagon without springs jolted by every pebble on the road. Good humor makes all things tolerable. And that is yeah. And it just it helps us put some of the more serious or pressing issues in life on the back burner for a little bit. I'm not telling you get rid of them. They're still going to be there. But there are moments we have to choose to set that aside to reduce stress and tension. And laughter is a great escape from that. Yeah. And I think it brings what you said in your book. It brings connection. And sometimes we need connection, which sometimes laughter can do that. Really? Information doesn't connect. Right. Talk about that. You mentioned that in your book talking about the difference between information and connection. Yeah. Well, you know, we know that your mind can tell the difference between fake and real laughter, but your body can't. So all those great physical benefits. Vanderbilt University says you can burn up to 40 calories with 10 to 15 minutes of hearty laughter. So I tell people, skip your workout and just go watch a comedy, you know, together. But but what happens is and I thank you, by the way, I'm going to go do that now instead of going to the world. I worked out today, but I'm going to instead go see a comedy. That's a lot. Think of what could happen if you do both your workout and you walk on the lighter side. But your mind can tell the difference. Your body can't. So my wife all the time, you know, I say in the book and I encourage all wives to do this. The next time your husband says something that's funny that he thinks is funny and you don't think it's funny, fake it, fake it. Let your body reap all the benefits of that laughter, because it's just that it's a bond. It bonds us together. Yakov Smirnov, my Russian comedian friend here in Branson, says laughter is a universal language. We all laugh in the same language. You walk in a room and people are laughing. You don't even have to know what was said or done. You just start moving toward it because that's how it it bonds us together. Hey, isn't that true? You know, when I've done things online that I and I thought it was really funny, but I didn't have any idea if anybody thought it was funny because, you know, I was just talking to myself, so to speak. And then when I'm with a group of people and I say the same thing and they all laugh, I went, oh, I guess that was funny. But, you know, we laugh because others are laughing sometimes, too. Yeah, that's why you mentioned during the pandemic when people like, can you can you do a zoom comedy thing for my group? And I'm like, you don't know how comedy works. Better in a room, better live. You know, I'm sitting here in Southern California today at 73 degrees. You're in Branson, Missouri, where it's well, it's not always like this in Branson because Branson is so amazing, but it's kind of snowy hail. You know, it's I guess it's rainy. It's not always like this tornado hail. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah, we're wondering if this is actually going to keep going in terms of even us being able to do it. But but you are the pastor of a man who was a mentor to me, major mentor to you much more. You wrote books with him. His name is Gary Smalley. One of the things I learned from Gary Smalley, but I know you wrote with him and lived life with him. He always talked about in a relationship, you need emotional safety. Expand on that. You talked about it in your book, but I'd love to. I think some people don't feel like they have emotional safety. Yeah. So it's. He called it judgment free zones. And I need to be able to listen to your opinions and feelings without seeing them as an attack on mine. And when I listen to you, it doesn't mean I agree with you. It means you're valuable and you're worth my time. And your feelings matter. That's way different than I agree with you. And I just wish I wish our country, to be honest with you, could get back to this listening to you. Doesn't mean I agree with you. Disagreeing with you doesn't mean I hate you. I just have a difference of opinion. And in an emotionally safe relationship, I can share what I'm thinking and feeling without fear of you fixing me, correcting me, judging me, telling me my feelings don't matter. And Gary was the master of that. He could listen to people. And I always, you know, many people walked away from conversations with Gary thinking, well, he's on the same page with me. No, he doesn't agree with you. He was just a safe person. Yeah. Yeah. You know, somebody once said listening is the language of love. And really, that's the way we show love. I find that with my wife, Kathy, she doesn't want me to fix her. And I wanted to fix her for the first five, six, ten years of our of our marriage. And one day I said, do you want me to kind of give you the answer or do you just want me to give you a hug? And she goes, I'd rather have a hug. And that shocked me because, you know, I'm wait, what people pay me to give them advice. And now all you want is a hug. But, you know, that is, you know, it's such a major factor and emotional safety. I'm finding more and more as I do some marriage conferences that people come up to me and they'll basically say, I don't feel emotionally safe. And they need to learn how to re communicate. I was with a mentor of mine. His name is Neil Clark Warren. He's actually the founder of eHarmony.com. And we went to the same grad school and he's quite a bit older than me and I'm old. But one day I was in his office, I was doing some work with him on talking about eHarmony. And we were talking about communication. And I assume that communication was kind of what we just inherited. So Kathy communicates like her mom. I communicate like my dad. If those two would have married, it would have never worked. And he said, wait, communication is a learned trait. And that was a game changer for me, Ted, because I realized that, no, I can learn how to communicate more effectively. So if I don't feel emotionally safe, there are ways to have that conversation. And it's not necessarily, you know, tell them how wrong they are. But it's actually learn some of the communication skills. And I actually felt in your book, you you actually were you gave amazing nuggets of of communication. I just thought that was so key. One of the things kind of dealing with communication is you you said a phrase that kind of blew my mind. I loved it. You said, enjoy your spouse's differences, because, you know, it's funny, I was attracted to Kathy with her differences. I'm extrovert. She's an introvert. I'm less detailed than her. She would say less responsible, but she's not here to, you know, to say that. But fascinating enough, what I heard you saying is, no, we have to embrace these differences and actually even kind of begin to enjoy them. So you gave an illustration. You said that Amy likes massage and you're not a massage guy. Am I right? Yeah. Oh, my worst experience ever was a couple's massage in Southern California. It it it broke me. It just it broke me down. And that was it. That was it. I won't ever have another one. It was so awkward. And she loved it. She's what she's stretching and and on. And I'm just praying, Lord, get this thing over with as quickly as possible. Not my thing, not my thing, but it's her thing. And that's what I know a lot of couples and you'll hear it all the time. They'll separate, drift, divorce and say, we don't have anything in common anymore. Well, according to Philippians, Chapter two, taking interest in other people's interests, that's more important than sharing common interests. Like for you to light up at your spouse's interest and get involved and ask questions and find out what really makes them tick. That's what makes it fun. And the whole book is centered around finding your shared sense of humor. So for Amy and I, what works for us doesn't work for every couple, because it's going to be different for every single couple. But I know her and I know her differences. And I know how to use appropriate humor with appropriate timing to call those out. And we know we know that couples who use laughter to work through difficult conversations and manage stress not only report higher levels of marital satisfaction, but they stay together longer. I mean, the quality of their marriage is better. So don't see the don't see the differences as negative. See the differences as now I get to live in curiosity and fascination. What does one of our friends say over the course of your marriage? You're going to be married to five to seven different people. So you think you're different now. Wait till you're empty nesters, then wait till there's a health crisis, then wait till, you know, some tragedy hits you. I mean, we're always changing. And so we're always learning. Yeah. And not just just not just personally, you know, this is going to be on YouTube, on our home or YouTube channel. And Kathy married me. I had long blonde hair at my shoulders. And you can see now a bald headed. No, even that changed. No, I did. I I keep that picture in my office just so people can see that I actually had a beard and long hair and looked a little bit like Jesus. I didn't act like Jesus, but I looked a little bit like Jesus. Here's something that I've tweeted many times, and it's from you. And I've just stolen it for you. And then I tweeted, I give you the credit. But you say every marriage is a duet in need of great backup singers. What does that mean? Yeah. So it's someone who rejoices, delights and praises your love. I love the song songs. It's Solomon and the Shulamite woman's duet. And the daughters of Jerusalem are the backup singers. The reason that works and we kind of came up with that in Branson, Missouri, because we're a kind of country music, live country music capital of the world. And we just want people coming alongside you. You have enough jaded coworkers, jaded friends on Facebook that are not going to rejoice and delight in your marriage. And it's an activity I take couples through all the time in counseling or coaching. I have them write down individually all of the voices of influence in their marriage. Anybody speaking into it, family, coworkers, all of your circle of influence. Then I bring it together and I say, let's go through it one at a time. Figure out who we need to turn down or mute all together. And then let's figure out who we need to turn up. And I find in a lot of cases, it's a mother-in-law, a father-in-law. And I'm not telling you to cut them out of your life, but you have to decide as a couple. Yes, we'll go to gatherings. But but my mom, your mom, not going to be a voice of influence, not going to be a backup singer. Yeah. You know, it's interesting. I use a term, initials, VDP. And VDP means very draining people. And we have very draining people and they're going to come all around us. Right. Yeah. Or VIP, very inspiring people. And what I find is I have to go after the inspiring people. Kathy and I need to give somebody a call and say, hey, maybe not this week, but in a couple of weeks, could we do dinner together or whatever it is or be? I've been in a small group for 23 years. These are my VIPs. And I have a better marriage and I have a better I'm a better parent. I'm a better Christ follower because of these 20, the 23 years of these guys speaking into my life. They're my VIPs. And they're we have a couples group that meets. Oh, we probably meet six times a year and we just we laugh. We have fun. We eat. It's not a formalized prayer group or something like that. But we've all known each other for years and years and years. Got a vacation together. And you know what? I'll watch what the other husbands do. And I'll say, well, I could do that. I should do that, you know, and and I'll see how the women have a certain need or whatever it is. And I think I can do that to Kathy. And so I learned by being around those people. So I think you're really right. I don't think we especially here in America. I know there's people outside of America who are who are listening to this right now. But people here in America, I don't think we lean into that enough. We're so busy. Yeah. And we think that just because it's someone we have a good time with, they can be a backup singer. That's a good place to start someone you have something in common with. But it really is the focusing on this word, you know, being intentional. We need to to invite them in and they invite us in our dearest friends or backup singers. They actually live in Virginia now. They're with the State Department. And but they're our go to couple. Our text thread is like life to us. We vacation together. We spend several times a year together. And I and I tell couples, you don't need a choir. You just need a couple of great backup singers. Now that that is so that is so good. And it is today we have to work on it if you have backup singers who don't live in your community. But it really is possible to do. Yeah. It's very good. And plus for you, in case you get in trouble, you can. You got a friend now at the State Department. So that's a that's a good thing for you. Got passport problems. Exactly, exactly. So the daily delay is 15 to 20 minutes of distraction free, kid free, tech free time. It's like eyeball to eyeball, body to body. And it can be like a little business meeting. Amy is usually up before I am every day. And I get into the sun room around 6 a.m. and she's rocking back and forth with a yellow pad excited to get our business meeting started. And she'll say, don't worry about taking notes. I'll just send this in an email later. But I'd like to start by going over the minutes from yesterday's meeting. So she's very serious about the daily delay. And you can talk about kids and budgets and work. I mean, the serious stuff, because that protects the weekly withdrawal, which is the date night. The date night is getting out of the house. You don't have to spend a lot of money. But it's about de-stressing and communicating and unwinding. We tell people, keep it light, keep it fun. Try something new. If you've never roller skated together as a couple, find your roller skating rink in town and get after it. You'll find that nothing has changed about the roller skating rink in the last 30 years. Still Trans Ams parked out front, Blair and Def Leppard. It's yeah, it's it's and that guy, remember that guy, Jim, with the headband. And he's still there. He's in his 70s, but he never left. So keep keep date night fun. And then the annual abandon that's getting out of town, you know, two, three days a year. Plan it. Here's what we know about all these times. It's so important. Anticipation is just as important as the time. So plan your date a few days before you go so you can think about it and you can reap all those benefits. Plan your annual abandon a few months before you go so you can reap all of those benefits. And when we prioritize quality couple time, it's a signal to our kids, to our family, to our friends. Our marriage is important. Yeah, you know, that's so good. You pretty much lost me at six a.m. My wife at six a.m. I'm not even sure if she likes God. So you lost me that no, actually, I find if people would do what you just described, I honestly think their marriages would be better. I've I've I've never met anyone now. Maybe there is, but I've never met anybody that does what you just said to do and actually has a marriage that's on the rocks because they're putting time and energy into it. And it's the same thing we said about laughter at the beginning. It's what was natural early on. You have to be intentional with later on. You never have to look at a newlywed couple and ask them, are you guys spending enough time together? Right. They're spending plenty of time. But after you've been married a bit, you got to prioritize it. Right. And they're having fun. And you know, there are seasons of life where it's not all that fun. My daughter, Heidi, has a four month old and, you know, it's not a fun time for her. I mean, she's up every night and and Matt's working and she's working and they're juggling this and that. That's not a good time. But even in the midst of that, even in young marriages, they've got to prioritize and going out on a date and you know, that's not when you talk about insurance. And that's not when you talk about the other things. You court each other. You have fun like insurance. I've not had that to the list. I won't I won't talk about that. Yeah. Well, Kathy always likes to talk about insurance. So, you know, that's making sure you have enough. Is that what it is? Exactly. And that worries me because, you know, I think she knows that 70 year old guy at the roller skating rink and and she's afraid he might like shoot me someday. And so then she needs, you know, the insurance. I never thought about that. The guy that has to go, honey, why are we talking about life insurance so much? Why is this a constant conversation in our marriage? Well, here's another line in your book that absolutely grabbed my attention. You said don't get a divorce, get a donut. You better unpack that one for me. You know where that comes from? Well, one. No, I had a grant. I had a grandma that taught us, you know, food can solve any problem. You gather around the table and start eating. No one fights over food. You get enjoy it. Pie cake. Hers with Dunkin Donuts. That's actually on a sign in a donut shop in Burbank, California. Wow. Don't get a divorce. Get a donut. And I actually taught that enough. I've had divorce attorneys come up to me and say, I now take a box of donuts into mediation and I cannot tell you just you get it. You walk in a room and you see a box of donuts. It changes your whole attitude. And he says, you know, it changes. It changes how the meeting starts, how it goes, how it ends. And so I yeah, we can bring food into it all day long. Yeah. You know, what's interesting is this conversation we've had is really about being intentional, about laughing, enjoying each other. And it's it's what we started with. It's a choice. Yeah. Marital satisfaction. You'll never find it online. No test will ever point you in the right direction. You have to choose it every day. Right. Right. And when we do, you know, it really does make a difference. Ted, thank you so much for being on our very first podcast. We need a drum roll. We're so excited that you were with us. Incredible, incredible insight. Thank you. Thank you for having me, Jim. Yeah, we could have talked so much longer. I want you back. Definitely. I want to encourage everybody to go out and pick up a love that laughs. I actually enjoyed it so much. I wrote Ted and just said, hey, I'm just enjoying this. I'm laughing while I'm writing while I'm reading this. And it was just so, so good. Get his other stuff, too. It's great, great stuff. Hey, before I let you go, let me just make a couple of comments. Let me ask a question to you. How's the fun factor in your life? How's the fun factor in your marriage? How's the fun factor in your family? I think a lot of times when we look at the fun factor, because today, for most of us, there's stress and there's problems and there's pain and there's so many things going on that we don't lean into fun. And I think we're really missing the mark. You know, the Bible says a cheerful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones. Another way of saying it in this proverb 1722 is a cheerful heart is good medicine, but a broken spirit zaps a person's strength. And you don't want that. And I'm not talking about just, you know, fake happiness. And I'm not talking about not dealing with the issues, but I'm saying lean into fun. That's going to make a difference. You know, laughter is often the missing piece to a good relationship. And many times if I'll ask people, do you guys have fun together? Do you ever laugh together? And they say no. Then that is one of the major missing pieces. Are there other pieces? Of course, there are. There's other types of intimacy. But if they're missing laughter, they're missing a big thing. Play fun, laughter all can open up a closed spirit. So if you are in a relationship right now and with your spouse, with your kids, and there's a closed spirit, go out and have some fun. Don't just talk about the issue. Don't go knee to knee. You're going to have to sometimes deal with some of the issues. But you know what? Right now, the thing to do is go and have some fun. Play laughter. It's the glue that can keep a family together. It's the glue that can keep a marriage together. Play fun, laughter builds memories and it oftentimes reduces stress. So put your energy there and I think you'll see a big difference. So anyway, that's what I'm hoping happens, is that you'll lean into the aspect of having some serious fun in your life and also in your marriage. And thanks so much for listening today. We're so grateful. Again, podcast number one. And we're going to have a lot of great episodes with some amazing, amazing people just like just like Ted. Right before we go, I simply want to say my deep heartfelt thanks to Cindy Ward for putting together a podcast studio. You can only see part of it here, but it's a great studio. And she made that happen as well as Kelly, Elijah, who really had something to do there. Sit there here in the studio with me right now. And then the amazing producer, Mike Segovia in Colorado. So appreciative of him until next time. I'm Jim Burns. And I'm so happy you were here. And I hope that you lean into fun in your marriage, in your family, because it's going to make a difference. Thanks so much. Well, welcome to Homeward. I'm Jim Burns and I am so glad you are listening. Honored that you would be a part of our podcast. And I want to ask you a question right from the beginning. How's your marriage relationship going? Or maybe even another question. Are you engaged or maybe in a serious relationship? How's that going? Is it going in the right direction? How about dealing specifically with a second marriage? Or hey, I know somebody who's on their third. Even some friends listening may be interested in becoming marriage mentors. Well, I have a treat for you today. This is a very different type of a podcast than we've done typically. And I've got my friend Les Parrott with us and we're going to talk about some of the finest marriage resources in the world. And I actually believe that many of those finest marriage resources have the name Les Parrott and Leslie Parrott on them. And we're going to help you really have your marriage succeed by looking at resources that can help you. And I mean in any direction, wherever you're at on that spectrum. Les Parrott is a New York Times bestselling author. He along with his wife Leslie have been, who by the way, he married way above himself with Leslie, but we're not talking about that today. They've been featured on USA Today, New York Times, CNN, The View, The Today Show, Oprah, but with a drum roll today, Les is on Homeward with Jim Birk. Finally. So he's finally made it. Les is actually one of the most brilliant people I know and he's fun to hang around with and I'm so happy you're on the podcast. Thanks for being on it. Hey buddy, it's always good to be with you and we've been doing this a long time over many years and so. I know. I know. If anybody's looking on the YouTube channel, you look a whole lot younger than me and you are but there we go. Like I said, you finally made it to the big time. I'm glad you're here. Hey, last week and I was talking to you before we started this podcast, you know, my wife bought two less and Leslie Parrott books, one on saving your second marriage before it starts and the other on saving your marriage before it starts. And you even commented that I kind of have a book on that, but you know, she uses your stuff. Okay. I'm still married. But anyway, there's amazing research that I actually got from you at one time that says If people will engage in premarital counseling, premarital education, do the assessments that actually their marriage will last longer. Oh, for sure. Can you talk about that? Oh, well, yeah, absolutely. In fact, if they'll do an assessment, so it's very customized and personalized to them as a couple and they get competent help that usually is at least seven sessions, sometimes less depending on the couple. We know there's a mountain of research that backs this up. Their chances of divorce are lowered by 31% on average. That's a pretty significant benefit. Not only that, Jim, but the level of contentment and satisfaction increases for these couples over the lifetime as well. So there's something about a smart start when you do things you prepare at the beginning Because what it does, here's my humble opinion after studying this for so many years of my life, it comes down to self-awareness and other awareness. Being aware of who you are, it's one of the hallmarks of health. And then secondly, other awareness, which is another way of saying empathy. You get those twin engines running, you're going to have a pretty good leg up in marriage and not everybody does that. And so that's why getting that competent help on the front end can really move that proverbial needle. Well, you mentioned something too, and it was actually my next question, because not just books, but you talked about an assessment. So everybody I know either uses Symbus or Prepare and Enrich, which are incredible assessments that you're a part of. Why is it better to do this assessment instead of just reading a book or having the pastor go through stuff? And a lot of pastors, of course, use Symbus and a lot of pastors use Prepare and Enrich counselors. Talk about those assessments specifically. Yeah, it's one thing to read a book, you know, and some of us are readers and some of us are not. And so but reading a book, maybe doing some workbooks, talking with a counselor, there's great value in that. I'm not knocking that at all. I'm just saying it takes it to a new level when you have basically a customized roadmap for lifelong love. I mean, think about on the front end of marriage, both of us have been married for a long time and have wonderful marriages. And we to our wives, let me make that clear. And so what we know is if we would have just, for example, if I would have just known how Leslie goes about solving problems early on in our marriage, we could have saved so much tension and friction and bickering because I would have gone, oh, that's how you're made. That's in your DNA. You are a reflective problem solver. Guess what? You married a guy who's an aggressive problem solver. If there's a problem to solve, why are we still talking about? Let's get going. Let's solve the problem. She's saying, let's give it time. There's merit. There's value to both of those things. We didn't know that until we started getting into this whole realm of assessments. And you know, the backstory on this, Neil Warren sat down in his kitchen one day, Neil in Maryland with Leslie and me and said, we have this idea for online matching and maybe it could help you with this BHAG you're always talking about. And you know what a BHAG is? That's a big, hairy audacious goal. Ours has always been to help particularly the local church lower the divorce rate by a third in our lifetime. And that's a huge BHAG, right? That's like, wow, how do you do that? I believe we're closer to doing that than ever before. And the trends are showing that now we have a lot of cohabitation and other things going on that impact that. But the truth is we have the tools for lifelong love and for why wouldn't you want to customize roadmap on how to best journey that? Because here's the truth. There's stuff that works for you and your marriage that doesn't work for Leslie and me and the stuff that works for us that doesn't work for you guys. And there's big biblical truths that work for all of us, but when you get into the weeds, it's really great to tease some of that out and an assessment can do that well. Yeah, I like that. And the assessment we're talking about premarital, but there's so many other assessments. We're going to talk about that later as well. I know when my daughter's my oldest daughter, when she got married, Kathy and I said we're going to pay for marriage counseling, but the counselor has to do preparing and rich. At that point, you didn't have Symbus. And then with my youngest, when she got married, I actually talked to the counselor and said, now do you do Symbus? And you know what's funny is they actually said no, but we'll sign up and we'll do it. And they actually wrote back and said, wow, where has this been? Why didn't I know about it? And so it's funny, part of my goal was not just having a counselor. Now I love counseling. I think the Bible says where there's no counsel, the people fall and the multitude of counselors are safety. I say that all the time. But what I love about the assessment, it's personalized. So I think you're exactly right. What do you say to the person, before I go to some of the other resources, what do you say to the person who says, I want this? Or the parent who says, like what we did, I'll pay for my kids to do this. But one wants to do it and the other one says, hey, I want to plan a wedding, but I don't want to plan for the rest of my life on marriage. What is their red flag, yellow flag? What's going on with that? Yeah, usually that happens when, in fact, we did a massive research study at the University of Chicago years ago and looking at the attitudinal set that people have toward marriage. In other words, not toward their relationship. These were single adults between the ages of, I think it was 21 and 38 or something like that and several thousand. And what we discovered were several different categories are attitudinal sets. And one of those is there's people, now there's true believers, like marriage, you can't imagine not being married, divorce is not in my vocabulary, they're true believers. And then on the other end of the continuum are those people that just don't believe in marriage. It's just a piece of paper. Why would I get married? We're in love and that's all that matters. And that's what you're talking about. That person that's just like, kind of like, I don't, why would we need pre-marriage counseling? We're not going to get married and whatever. And what usually happens in those situations is the other person is motivated and so they end up bringing them to counseling or what have you. And they're like, well, if that's what you want, I'll do it with you. And I love those cases because generally speaking, they go, oh, wow, this is making our lives easier. Why wouldn't I want to do this? So that's my initial argument to those folks is. Yeah, no, I buy that. That's happened to me several times is when I was a pastor, I would do pre-marital counseling and sometimes the guy that got dragged, usually the guy instead of the woman, but he went, oh, well, this is a good thing. And so, yeah, absolutely. I see you pulling something off of, wait, most of those are my books. You don't have your books. I see you pulled something off. What's that? Well, it was just in the Simbus assessment for those that are watching, even if you're not, it doesn't matter. I was just going to list them off. Resolute is the first attitudinal set. And then rational. Now, these rational people, they believe in marriage, but they also are realistic. They go, I watched Mom and Dad. This is not an easy task. This is going to be a big mountain decline. And then there's romantics. And romantics are, man, I just need to find the one and everything will be just fine. And so there's kind of a mysticism to it. And it's kind of romantic, right? And then restless. Now, these are people, they're like, if they end up in marriage counseling, it was almost by mistake because they were having a good time and lo and behold, somebody got pregnant or lo and behold, somebody, whatever. There's some reason that they're getting married. And they haven't given marriage much thought at all. They've been going to the clubs. They've been whatever, right? So those are restless. And then the last one is what we just talked about, reluctant. And so those five attitudinal sets, that's what's in this Simbus assessment. That's just one page. It's the first page. And we start there because it's super helpful to know, hey, if I'm a romantic married to a resolute, does that tell us anything? Well, yes, of course it does. And so we look at that and it's pretty non-threatening too. Yeah, that's what I love. I know you do a lot of assessments. They can go on your website. By the way, that website is on our show notes today and get all kinds of great assessments. I guess what I was going to say, Jim, is that what got us into this whole thing about assessments is when Neil said, hey, let's start this new matching thing to help you with your b-hag, I kind of got sidetracked on that. I felt like I got a second PhD in the technology of relationships because we were now, in fact, the way that conversation started, he said, hey, you know this new thing called the internet? This was 25 years ago. So that's when we got into it. And I just got, I became a big believer in being able to use technology in a way that you can leverage your relationships because you and I, we've been writing books for a long, long time and workbooks and speaking and all that. And that all helps. But there's something so personal about an assessment tool that is designed just for two of you. Yeah. And I know how close you are to Neil and I know Neil well too. And when we started seeing the studies with eHarmony.com, he was founder of eHarmony.com, when we started seeing those studies of finding the compatibility, that was an incredible thing. Hey, I want to move to another resource that you have. And I'm kind of smiling about it because I wrote in my notes, I said, let's talk about crazy good sex with less parent. And I went, that doesn't really sound very good. So you and Leslie are very open about this. You have great content on it. And I've actually passed that book out as well. What advice do you give to the people who say, hey, who doesn't want crazy good sex? But we don't really have crazy good sex. Ours is pretty mediocre. Some people say it's almost 50. 50% of the people say they're disappointed with their physical intimacy and that relationship. What do you say to that? Well, there is such a thing as a sexless marriage and others have written on that. That's not what this book is about. This book is really looking at what are the misbeliefs that men in particular have about sex. And there's kind of two meanings to the title, crazy good sex, because some of the beliefs are just crazy. Like what? And it messes us up. But if you get your beliefs straightened out, you can have crazy good sex. In other words, really great sex that you long for. But the first myth that we start with is that men want more sex than women do. And the research just shows that's just not true. It really surprised me. I remember reading that a long time ago in your book and that shocks me. Yeah. And comedians make light of it and so forth. And so there's kind of this myth that perpetuates that, oh, men are the ones that are really the sexual beings, but women are too. They may express it differently, but it's just as strong. The second one is that sex with the same person gets boring. You know, we all think, oh, the people that are having the greatest sex are those singles out there that are just living it up and getting wild in the clubs and all that stuff. And when you look at sexual satisfaction between two people, the happiest couples when it comes to their sex lives are those couples that have been married not just for a few years, but deep into the marriage. And they know each other. They understand intimacy with each other and so forth. So anyway, it goes through that. The Bible is very clear on masturbation. That's another myth. That's always an interesting conversation. Another one, my sex drive is too powerful to control as if I just, it's like a Ferrari engine that I just can't let the gas pedal off. And that's just a myth as well. Anyway, Jim, that's what that book is about. And I loved it. I was just going to say that this was not a book that I set out to write. I didn't think, oh, I really want to write a book on sex. It was my publisher that just said, hey, somebody needs to write to address this topic. And so that's how that book came to be. And I started, I said, well, let me look into the research a little bit. And I realized, wow, yeah, there's some corrections that need to be made. Yeah, you're right. What I loved about it was that you talked about the myths because when I read that book, I went, wait, is he right on this? Because I'm thinking I know what I'm talking about on some things. And I went, seriously? Like the one on, like you said, comedians, everybody would say that men have a higher libido and whatever. And I was like, what in the world? Anyway, it was really a great way, I think, to do that. I want to move to one more and then we'll move into... This is, Jim, this is like a, this is your life. I don't remember that show, but I remember the concept. It's like you're reviewing my whole publishing. I am, I am. I could do a lot more because I, as you know, love your material. You and Leslie wrote a book called The Good Fight. And not only was that a great book on conflict and how to fight right and fair, but also, I've talked to people who have heard you and Leslie speak on this subject and they go, this is life changing. Here you go, you pull them out. I need to do that with a couple of my books. But you pull them out. I could talk on great holiday ideas for youth groups. I wrote that in 1983. I don't even know where that book is. I'm just teasing you. But, you know, on The Good Fight, I mean, the concept is so great. You know, conflict is such... Conflict can take you negative or it can take you positive. You guys do such a good job with that. Just give us a little hint of what and why people need to work on the conflict and learn how to fight right. Well, yeah, conflict is a huge skill set for couples and we ignore it. And right here in my home city of Seattle, a fellow by the name of John Gottman was at the University of Washington and did yeoman work on that for years and years. Probably one of the most well-known relationship researchers out there. He's retired, but still getting it done. But anyway, Leslie and I dove into this topic really for ourselves. I'm sure you're like this too. Sometimes you just write a book for yourself. I really want to understand conflict. Here we are. Leslie is a marriage and family therapist. I'm a psychologist. And yet we still have these fights where our relationship seems to go off the rails. And why is that? We know what to do. We've read the research. Why do we still have conflicts? And so we really kind of dove into this and read all the studies, all the research stuff that nobody, you know, only marriage nerds read. And so this became a real pivot point for us in our relationship. And so we put it into this book. We often say, Jim, conflict is the price you pay for deeper intimacy. If you know how to fight a good fight, it can actually bring you closer together. And most of us think, oh, the goal is to avoid conflict. And it's not. The goal is to avoid bad fights, but embrace good fights. Bad fights, of course, pull us apart. Good fights bring us together. And so that's what this book is about. It's called The Good Fight. And it's all about how do you have a fight that actually does that? And we get into your fight type. We get into all kinds of stuff. What are the ingredients of a good fight? You want me to go through the ingredients of a good fight real fast? Do it real fast because I got more stuff I got to talk about. Let's keep going. One of the things that I really appreciate, this is like the affirming less story, but I've told people this behind your back all the time. A parrot book is both well researched and practical. And a lot of times for me as a person who reads a lot in the world of relationships and marriage, I either get research and there are people who are great researchers, but they don't really give you much practical or it's super practical and it's a story about their life that I didn't really get. Well, why do you feel that way? Or why do you understand it? So that's my compliment. Very kind of you. Well, I appreciate that and that means a lot to me coming from you too. But I write like I would want to read. And so if somebody's giving me their opinion, I want to know, is this just your opinion or do we know this is really the truth? And that's what I appreciate about you very, very much. I'm not looking for anything. You don't have to buy me dinner next time we're together. I have a feeling I will. I'm on a, you know, I love less. The last time we had dinner together, I think we went Dutch as a matter of fact. So let's just keep it at that. Yeah, but you had a very nice dinner and I just had a little cellar because I couldn't afford the fancy place we're at. Anyway, great stuff, great resources. And we're going to take a quick break, real quick break, and we'll be right back with more on how to have better love with less barren. I didn't mean to say that. That's just horrible. I know I've said that twice. As I mentioned, you know, I really believe that less and less his wife, Leslie, too, who honestly is an incredible woman, are some of the finest and most healthy relationship people in the world. And I truly mean that you can find out more about less and Leslie and their resources on our podcast page. And when we come back, we're going to talk about what I think is a major incredible assessment. I just went through it. I don't have the results yet and I'm kind of whining about it. I'll tell you about it in a minute. But we're talking about how to have better love. We'll be right back. Hey, I'm Kelly Fellows. Did you know that Homeward also has resources for parents and married couples? You can find all those resources at our website, homeward.com. Also check out our YouTube channel, where we create one minute video vitamins to encourage parents and to resource couples. Check those all out at YouTube forward slash Homeward and also our website, homeward.com. Now let's get back to our podcast. Welcome back. You're listening or you're watching the Homeward YouTube channel as we talk about how to have better love. And our listeners are all over the world and they know that at each podcast, we're either talking on strong marriages, confident parents, empowered kids or healthy leaders. Today, of course, we're talking about strong marriages with Les Parrott, who I think is one of the better people in the universe. I need to creep. I'm not trying to get anything out of him. I just keep saying nice things about him. Hey, before we go, I want the one minute version of something that we talked about before the podcast. So we were talking about dinner. We were at dinner and you and Henry Cloud, it was Henry Cloud, myself and you and our listeners, most of them would know who Henry Cloud is too. And you guys, we're at the White House and I went to go get a coat and so I didn't hang out with you guys and you took the, well, I don't know if it was the wrong turn or the right turn, but you ended up in the press room. You say that so casually. We were at the White House, like we're there all the time or something. So maybe you are, I'm not. Could you confess your sins to all of these listeners? Well, it wasn't any dastardly deed or anything, but I'll tell you, it was just, you know, we had been at this meeting on mental health and kind of, you know, an initiative from the White House on mental health and relationships. And so we were all walking out of that. And Henry, who's a good friend and has been for a long time, I just said, Hey, look at that sign down there. It said something about the FBI or something like that. And so we kind of peeled away from the group just for a second to look at it. Well, before we knew it, we were the only one standing there and the group was gone. And so we ended up walking out of another door. Well, we were walking into places that we probably shouldn't have been walking and no one was stopping us. But it wasn't like we were trying to be bad guys. It was just how the path unfurled before us. And before you knew it here, we were in some pretty sacred places in the country. Press room. You guys, I mean, I get to the dinner and you guys are giggling and you're showing me a selfie with being in the press room. Yeah, yeah. But then you ended up at the kitchen and they came with guns and didn't know what you were there. They apparently don't like tourists just walking through the White House kitchen. So honestly, it's one of my favorite stories. Listen, that is just so funny. And I, to be honest, was absolutely bummed that I went and got my coat. I thought about writing a movie afterwards just called Lost in the White House. That's funny. Hey, I want to talk about something we're calling this how to have better love. And you actually have an incredible better love.com assessment. And it's a great assessment tool. And what's funny is I had said to you, we kind of went back and forth. I was going to take the assessment and then of course my wife was going to take the assessment. You're going to kind of try to straighten out our 50 year marriage. We're going to help you. Yeah, I needed help. So I did it. And then I said to Kathy, hey, we need to get this done. And she goes, I'll do it next week. So we didn't finish it. I saw it. I get it. I believe in it. I've even pointed somebody to it already. But I don't have that together. But I'd love for you to take some time. We don't have a whole lot of time. But I'd love for you to take some time and walk through for our listeners, for our channel homework channel watchers, just what they would do if they went on and got this assessment. Because it just looked to me like it's for everybody. I mean, it would change somebody's marriage. Yeah, well, I have a little surprise for you, Jim, because Kathy did take it. She sent me the results. And this is actually an intervention for you right now. No, that actually we would need that. I don't think she did because she was talking about it. No, here's the concept. It's super simple and it's actually very fun. But you just go online, you go to betterlove.com and you begin to answer a series of questions. And it generates this report. You each do that separately. You can be dating or you can be married for decades. It doesn't matter. And then it generates this little it's about a dozen pages. I want to call it a better love report. When you say a report, people are like, I don't want to. It sounds like you're evaluating my relationship. And that's not what we're doing. It's a roadmap. It's a customized roadmap for lifelong love. And so it begins, you know, in the last segment, I said two of the most important things we ever do in life is increase our level of self-awareness because you can't change anything you're not aware of. And then secondly, increase our capacity for other awareness, that ability to be curious about others, to have empathy for others, to know how to ask a follow up question. You know, I just I'm going to get sidetracked for just a quick second because I'm so fascinated by this. Harvard Business School did this study recently on the single most important question that we ask each other. And I thought it was going to be like, you know, what do you do for a living or whatever? They said the single most important question is the follow up question. People don't ask the follow up question. What do you do for a living? Oh, I'm a psychologist. Oh, that's interesting. I'm an uncle who's a psychologist and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And we feel like we need to talk more instead of saying, how do you like being a psychologist or whatever the follow up question is? Yeah. So, but anyway, it's that other awareness, that curiosity, those two things. So this little assessment, better love helps you do just that. It begins by looking at how you're hardwired, how God made you as a person. And are you fast paced or slow paced, by the way? Are you task oriented or people oriented? Well, I happen to be fast paced and I'm task oriented. Leslie is fast paced, not as fast as I am, but she's fast paced and people oriented. Well, that means we're very different in so many ways. If Leslie comes into my office and says, hey, do you have a minute? And I'm in the middle of an email or something typing away. I don't go, oh yeah, come on in. Let me interrupt everything. I go, I usually just put up one finger. I don't even say anything. Like, you know, she knows that means just give me a second. Which finger? It's a good finger. It's the index finger. That's okay. Okay. I just wanted to make sure. Yeah. Thanks for clarifying. But if I go into her office and I say, hey, you got a minute? It doesn't matter what she's doing. She's in the middle of something. She drops it all spins around in her chair. Of course, come on in, sit down. What's going on? Right? She's people oriented. I'm task oriented. So it's those kinds of things, having that awareness about how you are designed. Jim, Jim, what if you went home tonight and Kathy said, hey, I need you to do something for me. Are you willing to do something for me? And you go, of course I'll do whatever, whatever you need. She goes, I need you to write. Are you right handed or left handed, Jim? Right handed. Yeah. What if she said from now on, I need you to write only with your left hand. You'd go, why? Oh, I can't explain it. I just, life is better when you're writing with your left hand. I just want you to write with your left hand. Can you do that for me? I'll try. This seems so weird. It doesn't feel natural. And let me try writing my name. And you'd write Jim Burns out and you'd go, I guess it's legible. It doesn't look like me. It doesn't feel like me. That's what it's like when we're trying to convert our spouse. If I try to convert Leslie to be fat, to be task oriented rather than people oriented. Right? Now we help each other as iron sharpens iron. We can help each other be better and be the best version of ourselves. But deep down in our bones, we're still who we are because that's how God made us. So that's the platform of this whole better love thing is getting awareness on who you are. And then Jim, we do something that no other assessment tool in the world does. Look at the unique chemistry between two people. And we look at how that, you know, do you know there's never been a marriage like yours before and there never will be again. It's like two fingerprints coming together. It's a unique combination of things. And so then we take that information, apply it to all the usual suspects, communication, intimacy, conflict, time management, all the stuff that is a part of a married life and look at it through the lens of how each of you is designed. And that's why when people go through this better love assessment, it's light bulbs going off right and left. Oh my goodness. Wow. That explains why I've always wanted you to do it. It's just like grace comes into the relationship. Patience comes into the relationship. More love, more humor, less bickering, all the things that we want. And so that's how we know it's measurable. The level of contentment, satisfaction, happiness begins to increase. And the seven weeks following you taking this and doing the action plan, you will increase your level of happiness by nearly a third. That's huge. Wow. Think if you could just be happier tomorrow in your marriage by 2%. It would be huge. I'm talking about by over seven weeks, a third. And we know that from independent research. So that's what the better love assessment is all about. Yeah. I want to suggest to you all to go to betterlove.com. You know what we're about here at Homeward is we're about people getting the resources to be helped in whatever they need. And you know, I did it. Like I said, I haven't got the results because you can't get your results until Kathy does the rest of it. Yeah, she'll do it. Even doing it, I realized that we were going to have some good conversations. And as I've said many times, and I'm quoting a guy who's closer to less than to me, but his name is Neil Clark Warren. I say this all the time. He taught me, I was in his office, I was in the lunchroom, and he said, but Jim, communication is a learned trait. And you know, that changed the game for me. And with these kinds of assessments, it kind of forces you to have understanding, but it also forces you to have some good conversation about it. I know when Kathy and I have done assessments before, even simple assessments where I was a, I'm the extrovert, she's the introvert, I began to embrace her differences. And I think you can get that when you take a look at something like this. So anyway, betterlove.com. I can't believe it, but our time is up. This has been a great time. And literally, thank you so much for all the resources that you and Leslie put out. Thank you. I mean, it's bigger than you, what you've got going here, but it's a force. There's no other place in the world that does what you do. Very, very generous of you. Well, I mean it. I'm totally... And let me tell you, Leslie and I have two boys. One is in college right now, he's at NYU, and the other is in graduate school in Southern California. And both of them learned about sexuality, human sexuality, because of Jim Burns, because books for kids on how to do that. And you sent those to me at just the right time. I think they had just come out. So that's just the start of how Jim Burns has impacted us. So I can do the same podcast back to you or interview back to you with pulling all your books off the shelf. That's true. But if your boys met me and if they remembered those books, you'd go, hey, this is my friend Jim, he wrote the sex books. And your boys are going to go, what a creepy guy. I hate when these mothers will bring me their little nine-year-old daughter and say, you remember that book? That was awkward. About your private parts? This is the guy that wrote it. They're like, ooh. Anyway, Les, thank you so much for being with us. I'm going to say just a couple more things, but I wanted to say goodbye to you and thank you again for all you do. And we'll have to do this again. You can tell there's a lot of content. Jim, thanks a million. And I owe you dinner, so let's do it too. You got a deal. So Cathy and I celebrated our 50th wedding anniversary. I mentioned that to Les. And of course, I look much younger. And that's crazy for us. But two dysfunctional kids 50 years ago came together from dysfunctional families. And I'll be honest with you, the first year, I didn't know if we were going to make it. And that first year, we kind of put a stake in the ground and we said, we'll do whatever it takes to make this marriage work. And the words, do whatever it takes, has been with us for 50 years. We had to realize that that first year we had a high maintenance marriage. And that doesn't change. I mean, you can get a lot better, but we do have a high maintenance marriage. But we decided that we would do whatever it takes to make our marriage a priority. And we got some counseling, yes. And we committed to a weekly date night and we found the resources needed. And we've continued to look for those resources. And honestly, many of them, as you can tell, have been less and less, Les. I've never regretted that, saying do whatever it takes. And I'm not saying we have the perfect marriage. In fact, for our 50th, my daughters got together and gave us a candle. I don't think they were big spenders, but it said, happy 50th, annoying each other for 50 years and still going strong. And we now have that, right? You know, in the main part of our kitchen. And we just laugh at that. But my friends, do the work. Put in the effort. Enjoy the results. And through it all, have some serious fun. So again, my thanks to Dr. Les Parrott. And see you next time. Thank you, Ken. Great to be with you. You've had a lot of content already, and I love Kara and Scott, and you've had, this is a great conference, incredible. Brian, what's the deal? How did you get Ken to come here? He's like the all-star. It was the dairy smell from Chino. Do you have dairy smells anymore? Is there any dairy in Chino? After it rains. Okay, well great. Well, I'm thrilled to be with you. I really am. And I'm going to talk about confident parenting first, which is kind of an oxymoron. That's like diet ice cream. I mean, can anybody be a confident parent? I was before I had kids. I was a youth pastor, and I just had all kinds of thoughts about you, who are parents. And then when I started having kids, well, actually, it was Kathy and me, not just me. Well, when Kathy and I started having kids, I was getting more humbled and more humbled and more humbled. Even when our kids became adults, I see some grandparents in here. Then we're even more humbled. I think Kathy said, wow, I didn't see this coming. And we've continued to be humbled. But now we get the grandkid thing. I'm going back home. I'm driving when this is done to go play with our grandkids because we get to hang out with them, two of the three, tonight. And that's going to be cool. But confident parenting is what we're going to talk about. And again, I don't think anybody can be a truly confident parent, if you would. But I do think that there are some things that we can talk about that can help you along the way. And in fact, I want to start with a scripture that's actually really quite famous in many ways. It's what people use when we talk about parenting a lot of times. But the question becomes, you know, is it possible? Well, I actually think it is possible to become somewhat confident if we have a plan and a purpose. But the Bible says this, train of a child in the way that they should go. And when they are old, they will not turn from it. I think the thing I want to say to you right from the beginning is really good parents have kids who make poor choices. Really good parents. You're a good parent. You're here. That's amazing. But really good parents come from sometimes dysfunctional families. Kathy and I came from dysfunctional families. So I came from a family where there was alcoholism. My dad was an alcoholic. My two brothers are alcoholics. My grandpa, my mom's side was an alcoholic. We met the first day of school over at Azusa Pacific. I was in the nerd section back where you people are. Yeah, you know, the LA Dodgers. There you are. Yeah, you know who you are. And not that the LA Dodgers are nerds, but you know, that's the nerd section. And there was a beautiful woman sitting in the second row right where this fine woman is. And I said to my two new nerd friends, see that girl down there? And they said, she's beautiful. I said, one day I'm going to take her out on a date. And they looked at her beauty and they looked at me and they laughed. You said that very... Thank you, Brian. You said they burst out laughing. Oh, okay. They totally did. I think, I don't know that it was a burst of laughter, but it was like, yeah, right. And then they laughed. And the very next day I met her and we became just friends. I wanted more, but she got a boyfriend who was tall, dark and handsome. And you're looking at me. I had hair then, but not much. And so anyway, the one... Finally, she kept saying to me, you know, what should I do with this guy? Because we're good friends, you know, what do you think about... His name was Bruce. What do you think about Bruce? And I'd always go, break up with the scum. There's somebody better. And finally, she did that first semester and we became more than just friends. We got married one week after college graduation, which is crazy. I never tell people to do that, but we did. But what happened was we had a very tough first year. And the reason was because we came from dysfunctional families. We thought because we were Christian, because we're going into ministry, that it would be simple. And I remember going away on a 10-day honeymoon and becoming the youth pastor at a church not too far from here called Yorba Linda Friends. And at that church, Cathy and I would argue on the way to youth group. And then I would talk to the kids about the joy of a Christian family feeling somewhat hypocritical, right? But fascinating enough for us, we've had a high-maintenance marriage and our kids have not been perfect. They are great. And now that I look back, they're in their 30s and I look back and they're doing great. And Christie, who I'm going to see this evening, and her husband Steve, and the kids, they go to the same church. And yet when she went to Point Loma Nazarene, she said, I had to disown my parents' faith to own my own faith. So she had to go through a time of searching. It was interesting. So again, because we came from dysfunctional families, we thought you just did parenting. But what I want to say to you loud and clear is that we don't just parent. And especially with today's culture, when the world is on fire, the question I want to ask you is, are you parenting by circumstance and chance? Are you doing it with purpose in mind? And so I'm going to actually do a 10,000-foot level here. I know what Kara talked about, and I love Kara. In fact, she went through our training. She's an awesome, awesome person, incredible, brilliant person, a lot smarter than me. And Scott is so practical when it comes to one of the most important issues in the entire world in terms of creating a media safe home. But now we're going to take a 10,000-foot level now that we've had that. We're going to take a look at, do we have a purpose or a plan? But what I want to say to you is, if you are anything like me, because you were like Kathy or myself, you know, we got married. I came from this alcoholic home. Kathy's home was just crazy. And we came together and it was quite humbling. And one year into the marriage, we made a decision. I'd not be standing here if it wasn't for that decision. We made a decision to become what we call the transitional generation. So the Bible says, and it's quite clear, it's all throughout the Old Testament, that you inherit the sins of a previous generation to the third and fourth generation, right? So I was an alcoholic and Kathy wasn't as crazy as her family, but we were going in different directions, not good directions, because we didn't have that foundation, if you would, that I'm going to talk to you about. And we said, look, we either are going to recover or we're going to repeat those sins. And I'll be honest with you, three brothers of mine, they repeated. Three siblings of Kathy, they repeated. We decided we were going to recover. And I'm here to say that I think it's the greatest decision we made besides making a commitment to Jesus Christ. But it hasn't been always easy. Forty-eight years of marriage now, kids now in the thirties, life is settling down. It's been good. But what I want to say to some of you is if you've already spent the morning here talking about parenting and whatnot and you go, that's not my house. Well, I want to say you can be the transitional generation. Our daughter, Christy, again, my oldest, she was driving us nuts when she was like 17. She was leader of the worship band at our church. She was the president of Fellowship of Christian Athletes at her school. But at home, she just had this major attitude type deal. And one day I come walking in after work and Kathy and Christy are in the kitchen and I can tell it's not really an argument, but Christy is just hassling Kathy like crazy. And furthermore, Mom, really being tough. So I did what any good passive aggressive father and husband would do. I stayed out of that room. But I kind of listened, right? And she's saying things and I'm like, wow, that's kind of true about your mom, but I wouldn't tell her that you're in trouble. Finally, I did what I should have done. Take some leadership in here. And I walked in and I said, Christy, I want you to go to your room right now. And she went, but, but I said, honestly, no, buts. I want you to go to your room. I gave her the dad look. I didn't yell. I'm not a yeller. My dad was a yeller, but I'm not a yeller. I just went, go to your room. And I thought she was going to turn to me and say, Mom's a little bit off, but you are the most amazing parent in the world. And now she went on me. Now, I know I write books on parenting, but I wanted to stab that kid at least in the leg with a plastic fork or something. Okay. To let her know I didn't. Okay. So I followed her upstairs and she slammed the door and I knock on the door and I said, Christy, I'm coming in. And I said, Christy, it's, it's my turn to talk. You were talking to mom. I said, I want to talk about mom. And I first want to say this. Some of the things you said were probably true about mom and me. And so she's like, she's 17. So she's like, cool. Dad's on my side. Right. And I said, but your mom is the woman in my life who I've seen grow the most in her life, in her faith as a person, as a mom. And I said, you know, we didn't talk to you about this and we should have, but you know, we both came from dysfunctional families. She's 17. She knows the family system. She knows kind of the goofiness of both sides, right. By this time. And I didn't have to throw anybody under the bus. I just said, we came from dysfunctional families. And I said, one year into our marriage, long before you were a spark in our eye. And that was sarcastic because she wasn't being a spark at that moment. But I said, long before you were a spark in our eye, we made a decision to become the transitional generation. I said, mom started in dysfunction land and she has grown to here. And I've never seen anybody do this like mom. Honestly, she is the person I've seen grow the most of anybody I know. And so we decided to recover and not repeat. And it's not been easy. I'll just tell you that much right now. I mean, you might think it's easy, but it's not easy. But the burden is on mom, not on you, because she's taken that burden from you and she has made some major sacrifices to get that far. And I said, so Christy, mom starts here in deficit land, but you get to start someplace here. I'm just simply saying she starts here so that you can go farther than we ever will go if you choose. Christy started to cry and I wasn't yelling at her again. Her eyes just welled up with tears and she goes, I need to go apologize to mom. You're so right. So of course, Kathy's in the kitchen and Christy comes down the stairs and I'm following her and she goes up to Kathy. She's done. She's not like not mad at, you know, Kathy anymore. She's like impressed. So she just walks up to Kathy and gives her a big hug. Kathy, on the other hand, has not had the same conversation. So she's like looking at me. You know, Christy's giving her this hug and saying, mom, I love you so much and I'm just so proud of you. And you know, you and dad have done, you know, all this stuff. And Kathy's looking at me like, did you promise her Disneyland? I mean, what is going on here? Right. Now, I can't say that we've never had those issues again. But what I want to say to you before I even start is that you can be the transitional generation with God's help. Okay. So we're going to talk about that today in terms of how do we become confident parents. Before I talk about your kids, though, I want to meddle in your life just a little bit. I want to ask you another question. I'm going to ask you lots of questions in this first session. What will it take for you to recover and to overcome negative family patterns? What will it take? Well, there's four things that I want to bring up today. I know some of you are note takers and, you know, go at it. But the first one is to recover. You're going to have to admit your own brokenness. We are all broken. We are all sinners. What does the word sin means? It means to miss the mark. Just admit it. Quit trying to act like, you know, and I'm not saying this about you, but we do this in the church. We act like everybody else has a better family than us and we don't want to tell anybody. But the truth is, is we all have brokenness. I mean, I know I should get to the scripture, but let me give you Lilo and Stitch. I mean, it's important. Disney, right? This is my family. It may be small. It may be broken, but it's still good. Yeah, it's still good. That's the quote. That's how I feel about my family. We're not perfect. I'm trying to be perfect. And so when we admit our own brokenness, what it helps us do is not be pointing fingers at other people. But if I point fingers at Kathy or if I point fingers at my kids, there are three fingers pointing back at me. I can't change them, but I can change me. Secondly, I think it's important to develop the courage to change. This session, as we look at the whole day, you've invested a lot of time to be here. There's something that can change, something you can tweak. Don't radically change everything, but tweak something. What is that that you want to have the courage to change? And it might be that you're too busy. We'll talk about that in a minute. It might be that maybe it's time to change the way you do some of the media in your house. It might be that as Kara talked about, it might be that with your faith conversations in your house. I don't know if Kara said this, but there's a new study that shows 300% better chance of kids staying in the faith if there are faith conversations in the home. That's both from Barna and from a guy named Richard Ross in Texas. Two studies that said the same thing. That's amazing. Especially when we see 65% of Gen Zers leaving the church right after high school. Did you hear that? That's a stain in the world of family ministry. We grieve that. But yet if we can't have some of those faith conversations in the home, we need the courage to change. The other one is we have to establish what I call replenishing relationships. You can't do parenting alone. You can't do marriage alone if you're married. I also realize there are single parents in here. Some of the finest parents I know are single parents. You don't know that because you're too tired. But the fact of the matter is that we can't do it alone. We need replenishing relationships. I have the privilege to be in a small group for 21 years of these four amazing men. So there's five of us. And we get together every Tuesday. And I'm telling you, I'm a better husband and a better father, a better Christ follower because I'm with those guys because they're my replenishing relationships. And yeah, we laugh. And yeah, we have fun. We just went fly fishing in Montana. I mean, it was cool. But we also get into the word and we also share our life. When we first started, we didn't share our life as much. And then one of my heroes who I talked to on the way, his name's Tom, it's his wife's birthday. And he opened up his kimono and said, my marriage isn't going so well. And instead of us going, shame on you. You call yourself a Christian leader? We went, wow, let's get behind him. Let's get around him. And then we started opening up more. And all of a sudden, I've found these replenishing relationships. Do you have replenishing relationships? Women, you do it better than men, but men, we need replenishing relationships. You say, well, I thought you were going to talk about confident parenting. Yeah, I am. Because we can't do, we can't be confident with our parenting if we don't set it up that way. And then also, we have to live by the eternal perspective, the eternal perspective. So you parent by the eternal perspective. That changes things. See, what I say to people, and I don't care if you have a three-year-old or if you have a 30-year-old, what is our goal? Our goal is to raise responsible adults, and I'm going to add who love God. See? And if that's the case, then we're going to parent from the eternal perspective. And to do that, it takes discipline. Paul said to Timothy, discipline yourself for the purpose of godliness. And it takes some discipline. I like to say there's pain in life, right? It's either the pain of discipline or the pain of regret. So some of us won't take the pain of discipline. I'm going to talk about some disciplines here in a minute. The pain of discipline because it's too hard or we're going for the easy way out. But then that's not good because then we have the pain of regret when it comes to even our family. Pain of discipline. So I had knee surgery a while back, and I did the freshman 15 or whatever. So I gained this weight. And so I've been working out. So I was telling Kathy today, we walked the dog this morning. I live in Dayton Point. So we're down by the harbor and we're walking the dog. And I go, man, my chest is sore. And she's like, are you OK? She's thinking like heart attack. And I go, oh, no, no, no. It's from pumping the iron. I said to my wife, I go, can you tell the difference? And she's like, not yet. Nobody here when I stood up went, oh, he's buff. Right. But this is the pain of discipline. This is the pain of regret right here. OK. So what we have to realize is part of that is in our parenting and in our family. It's the pain of discipline or the pain of regret. There's going to be pain. See, good pain or bad pain. Now, I want to read to you a scripture. It's not going to come up on the on the screen. We missed it. But it's actually the most often quoted scripture in the Bible. What's the most often quoted scripture in the Bible? John 3, 16, I heard somebody say it. No, that just felt good. Now, Brian knows a lot more about theology than me. But, you know, I know the answer to this. Give me another one. Jesus wept. No, but that was funny, actually. Funnier than we got. Jesus wept. It's the shortest verse in the Bible. An eye for an eye. You're in the right testament. I can do all things through through Christ who strengthens me. Philippians. Yeah, no. And I felt bad saying it to you. Just like a nice person. I didn't want to. But you're wrong. Wait, somebody else back here. Do into others. No, but that's a good one. Love your neighbor as you love yourself. Now you're getting close. It's actually found in Deuteronomy. It's a little bit of a trick question. It's found in Deuteronomy 6, 4 through 9. And the reason I know it's the most often quoted scripture because every day in an Orthodox Jewish home, it's quoted in the morning and in the evening. We don't quote any of those scriptures every day. Right? First words out of Mary's mouth of scripture. No doubt would have been what we call the Shema in Hebrew. The word is Shema. Shema means to listen. But it's the plan and the purpose of the Hebrew people. We can learn something from it again. The screen is not coming up in your screen. But I want to read it to you because I want to make a couple of comments to you as we as we move along. And it says this hero. It'll sound familiar to you. Hero is real. The Lord our God. The Lord is one. Lord is one. Hero is real. The Lord our God. The Lord is one. Love the Lord your God with all of your heart and with all of your soul and with all of your strength. So in other words, faithfulness and fidelity to God. This was the plan and the purpose of the Hebrew people. It was before Jesus. It was during the time of, I mean, this was written in Deuteronomy. But it was also orally transmitted before even Deuteronomy. Amazing, right? And then it was written in Deuteronomy. It was the plan and the purpose then. And it was the plan and the purpose during the time of Jesus. It's still the plan and the purpose for Jews, okay? Now, there's one God. We're to love him with everything we have. It goes on to say, these commandments that I give you today are to be written on your hearts. Impress them on your children. So in other words, we're to live it out and then we're to impress it on our children, right? So when it comes to even Christian education, spiritual development, it's not the job of a really cool church here. The job of the really cool church is to come alongside you to help you do this. And that's what's hard because again, none of us feel capable of doing that, but yet it's the call. It's what we're called to do, okay? We live it and then we pass it on, impress it. It even tells you how to do it. It says, talk about it when you sit at home, when you walk along the road, we drive, when you lie down, when you go to bed, when you get up. So it says basically, bring God into your home. That's what a confident parent does. It's hard because no family is perfect and there's tension and there's chaos depending on the age of your kids, but no family is perfect, but that's what we're called to do. It then goes on to say, tie them as symbols on your hands, which means take God to work. And that day they were taking God to work. I mean, you know, with the hands, they worked with their hands. Bind them on your foreheads, which means put them into your mind. And then it even says, write them on the doorframes of your houses and on your gates. I was talking with a woman yesterday who got back from Israel Wednesday. Anybody here been to Israel? So if you have, oh, quite a few of you, wow. So if you've been to Israel, in front of every door is something called a mezusa. You can Google me and check this out. But a mezusa is basically what the Jews have, but inside the mezusa is the Shema. And every Orthodox Jew has it. We have it at our house, okay? We're not Jewish, but it's just a cool thing. So that's what we're called to do. That's the plan and the purpose. So in the Burns home, that's our plan and purpose. So I'm gonna give you a couple of lessons in confident parenting, and we'll kind of think through it and I'll meddle in your life just a little bit. But the first lesson is this. I'm gonna call this, that in some ways would have been a lesson, the lesson of the Shema, but this is the lesson of the Sabbath, another Hebrew word, the lesson of the Sabbath. Sabbath just means to rest, right? So I think one of the biggest problems in America is this breathless pace in which we live our lives. We want a good family. We want our kids to thrive, but some of us are so busy. When I graduated from grad school in Princeton, New Jersey, I didn't stay for the graduation because I was coming out here to be a youth pastor and we were starting a ministry and doing all this kind of stuff. And so we didn't stay. A friend of mine wrote me a note. He's still one of my good friends. He said, if the devil can't make you bad, he'll make you busy. Thought you might need that. Well, that was prophetic for me. I wasn't gonna be in the arms of another woman. I wasn't gonna be embezzling money. I was gonna be so busy doing important things that at times I was gonna miss the most important things. So a few years back, a number of years now, I was speaking at the Promise Keepers Pastors Conference. I had the privilege to speak for an organization called Promise Keepers. But this was Promise Keepers Pastors. We were at Diamondback Stadium in Arizona. And before I was to come on, the band was playing. They had an amazing band with Promise Keepers. And then I was talking with a man named Jack Hayford. Jack Hayford is not far from here. He's in the Van Nuys area, and he's an incredible international leader. And I always ask people this question. I asked Jack this question. I said, Jack, what is the secret to your leadership success? So the band's playing. We're sitting back here. I'm kinda getting ready with my notes. And he said, you know, Jim, it's not what I've chosen to do. It's what I've chosen not to do. I said, unpack that for me, Pastor Jack. And he said, you see, I had to say no to good things, to say yes to the most important things. And I said, Jack, what are the most important things? And he said, well, it's my relationship with God. So I need time with God every day. He said, you know, I'm not one of these guys who spends hours, but I need time with God. And that's how I start my day. It's my wife. He's just lost his wife in the last couple of years. And he talked about his wife. And he didn't, you know, we have date nights. I mean, he's talking about how he goes about doing that. We pray together. It was his kids and he named his kids. It was his grandkids and he named his grandkids. This is a guy who was the pastor of a mega church. He was the president of a denomination. And also he was the president of a college. But yet he said, I had to say no to good things, to say yes to some of the most important things. So the fact is, is that we have to figure out how to find replenishment for our overcrowded lives because most of our lives are probably too overcrowded. So what are the results of an overcrowded life? Now, have you ever seen the sign that says speed kills? I was in Atlanta yesterday. And actually they still have these, I haven't seen them in California for a while, but I was literally in Atlanta yesterday. And I saw not this time, but the last time I was in Atlanta, which was last month, it said speed kills. And then it was talking about driving, of course. But what I'm saying is speed kills, the pace that many of us try to keep up with our families is killing the soul of our family. So what I'm seeing happen today is that the results of this are a loss of rhythm. So what I'm saying, a loss of rhythm, what I'm saying here is that, you know, and you can bring these up if you want, Phyllis, but a loss of rhythm, I'm not talking about this kind of rhythm, you would not want me to show you rhythm, but the loss of rhythm right there, yeah, is that we don't have a rhythm. If you have dinner five times a week with your kids, guess what? They are less promiscuous sexually, they're less involved in drug and alcohol abuse, and they get better grades. But so many times we're so busy that we don't take the time to do something like that. Loss of spiritual focus. Hey, we're too busy to do spiritual stuff. We're just trying to get by Thursday, and I totally understand it. Some of you have younger kids. I mean, I remember those days where we'd go, it's Thursday, and we finish, they're in bed. And then Friday we'd go, wow, we gotta do this again for like the next 22 years or whatever, okay? Loss of health. Sometimes with kids, it's that they get tummy aches if they're young. If they're older, maybe they are stressed out and have at-risk behaviors. And we think the at-risk behaviors are because of some other spiritual force, and it's just because we're so busy, say, vulnerable to sin. So our kids become vulnerable to sin because we're too busy. Some of us need that discipline. So what happens is that we become over-committed and we become under-connected. And you say, but I'm with the kids all the time, but are we connected to them? I wrote a book called Creating an Intimate Marriage, and men think it's on sex, and there's one chapter on it. Women get it. Connection means, I mean, intimacy means connection. And so the point I'm saying is, are we connected? No, we're over-committed and under-connected. We who are Christians, say. And so a lot of times, our families struggle because of that. So we have to live by the Sabbath, which is at least thinning out. Are you too busy? Because if you're too busy, then things probably aren't going as well. Now, I'm not saying that we all move to Wyoming and live in a commune. I mean, would that be cool? No, we're not gonna do that. We're not gonna move to Hawaii and surf for the rest of our life. What we're gonna have to do is figure it out here and now, and that takes discipline. It takes complication. I love what the scripture says here. It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever. For in six days, the Lord made the heavens and the earth, and on the seventh day, he rested and was refreshed. In fact, another way of saying the word refreshed in Hebrew is he took a breath. Do you as a family take a breath regularly, or do we just think we can keep on going, say? So what I'm saying and suggesting is that we actually need to rest. Sabbath means rest. Now, again, I don't think we do it the way, I just was with a woman named Ruth Graham, Billy Graham's daughter, who's an amazing woman, and I was just with her, and periodically, we get to hang out, and she was talking about blue Sundays. Anybody know what that was? So if anybody from, like in the East Coast, they had these Sundays and they didn't open stores, and in her family, she couldn't play games. Talk about media. You wouldn't have been able to have media, and so that was her family with Billy and her mom. His name was Ruth, too, and she said, I hated him. She goes, now I wish we had those kinds of things, because life just keeps on going at such a pace, right? So what are some of the ingredients if you are going to incorporate a healthy Sabbath? I'm not talking about legalism here. One is we need rest on a weekly basis. Do you take a day off? Does your family take a day off? Do your kids take a day off? I mean, I'm looking at my grandson, James, and he's our oldest, he's gonna be seven on the 22nd of September, so it's like this week, and he has baseball, just started, at 10.30 every Sunday. So I'm watching Christie and Steve. They were at church on Sunday. We have a nine o'clock service. We have a Saturday night service, too, so they can go there, but typically, they're gonna go to the nine o'clock, and then the second, they're bolting out of the service, because that's what they do, so that's definitely, Sunday isn't their time of rest, and I'm not saying that you just take naps. What do you do to rest? I mean, for me, I rest sometimes by playing sports. I surf, so sometimes the most restful thing I do all week is if I'm surfing, see? But I kept talking to leaders, pastors, who weren't taking 24 hours off, and they were pressing toward burnout, and I think as families, we do the same thing, so rest. Secondly is refresh. What do you do to refresh your family? You do something on a weekly basis? You know what we started doing? Was we started doing weekly devotionals. This sounds probably wimpy, but we would never go over 20 minutes, because our kids couldn't handle over 20 minutes. In fact, when we first started, I led the family devotions, and finally one day, I did realize the kids didn't like them, and I would speak to them for like 20 minutes, as if that was gonna be a big deal, and finally one day, Kathy says to me, no offense, Jim, but they don't like these family devotions, and so again, passive aggressive. I said, well fine, then you do it. She goes, as a matter of fact, I will. So that night, she says, it's gonna be, we're gonna have some family time. She didn't say the word family devotional. She said, we're gonna have some family time, and I've got some chocolate here and red vines. I'm like, that's cheating. You don't study the Bible with chocolate and red vines. Give me a break, and we're up in Christy's room, and the kids are like, awesome. And you guys wanna act out? You wanna do a play? So they're nine, seven, and five. So these aren't kids who needed in the Greek or in the Hebrew. What they needed was some fun, acting, right. So Cathy goes, we're gonna act out any Bible story that you want. Here's a children's Bible story book. So Christy, who's in charge, she opens it up, and she goes, we'll do this one. It's Adam and Eve. So then the girls got in an argument, because nobody wanted to be Adam, because when you're that age, boys are gross and they have cooties, and so finally, I just went in the middle of this argument, which is not very spiritual. I just said, Christy, you're the oldest. Adam's older than Eve. You are gonna be Adam. She goes, can I draw a mustache? Absolutely, you can draw a mustache. We found out later it was a permanent marker mustache. It's another problem, but that was for school the next day. So she goes off into the room, and I can hear hangers going and stuff. I go, she's not practicing this. So then Becca and Heidi get in an argument, because nobody wants to be the snake. They'd already chosen me to be the snake, and there's only Eve left in the story. So now, Brian, I'm gonna apologize to you, because I know you would not do something like this, but I changed the Bible just a bit. I was desperate. So I said, Rebecca, you are Eve, and Heidi, you are Yvette, Eve's little sister, okay? I was desperate, and my wife's like, there's no Yvette in this story. I go, stick with us. So they go off, they seem to be happy about it, and all of a sudden, Christy walks in. She's got a baseball hat, because I gotta keep a hat on at all times, because of skin cancer on my bald head. And so she has a hat on, and she has one of my Hawaiian shirts that go down to her knee, and I go, Christy, why are you dressed like that? I mean, why did Adam wear that? And she goes, well, garden, they were in the garden, and the garden of Eden, the closest thing to them is Hawaii, and so they went with the Hawaii motif, right? All of a sudden, Heidi comes out. She's the five-year-old, and she's in a Hawaiian hula outfit that we had bought when she was three when we went there, and so she has this grass skirt, but it's kind of too, now too small for her, so she's kind of, somehow they've helped her tie it, and you can see her pink panties through it, and she's got these two coconuts just dangling there. And so, I mean, she's only five, so she walks by, and I try to straighten the coconuts, and I do, and then she moves, and now you've got one coconut here and one coconut dangling even lower, and she goes, is it time? And I said, time for what? Because this is Yvette. I mean, she's not even in the Bible or in that story. She goes, they said I'm supposed to do a hula. I just look at Kathy, I go, this is the least spiritual, and I go, let's go for it. So she's like, everybody loves a hula. She did this hula. It was pretty awesome, and we clapped for her, and I'm still looking at it going, this is so, I mean, I talked about in the Greek, pornea means, and they were bored, but at least I had the Bible in front of me. This story is going nowhere. All of a sudden, Rebecca shows up, and she is wearing nothing. She's seven, and she has nothing on. She's totally naked, maybe one sock, and she's our defensive one anyway. Now she's a Christian therapist, which is maybe that's why she is one. We ruined her. But she has her hand on her hip, and she kinda goes, just stands there, and I go, okay, Rebecca, tell us what you're, well, actually not wearing, and she goes, well, it says right here in the Bible, looking at the children's storybook, which isn't exactly the Bible, but it's a story. She goes, it says right here, she was naked. I went, okay, you can do this play, but if they ever ask you to do the Adam and Eve play at church, you've gotta have clothes on. I mean, even in this story, like, notice that Eve is covered. She has leaves and strategic places on her body. Okay, so they acted out the story, and we got one more dance from Heidi. You know what? It changed the way we started doing things. And frankly, when I was talking about refresh, it refreshed us. They actually enjoyed the chocolate. They enjoyed the red vines, and they actually enjoyed most of the time, that scripture, see what I'm saying? So you find things. You find faith conversations. I said something in passing to you. 300% better chance that kids will stay in the church if there are faith conversations. Those were our faith conversations. I'm not saying it's perfect. Okay, and then the next one is restore. A family breaks up in a week. You know, the Bible talks a lot about a week, seven days. Lot of stuff going on there, see? And so I think we restore. And now I'm not gonna move this into a marriage conference, but I'm just simply gonna say for Kathy and I, in a week, we need a date night every week, and we made that commitment after kind of flailing. We also were with our mentors one time, and we said, what do you guys do for spiritual intimacy? And they go, we spend 20 minutes a week. And I was like, how wimpy. I mean, this is like a spiritual leader. I mean, Ken would know the names of these people. And I'm like, all they spend is 20 minutes. And I go, well, Kathy and I don't. I mean, we pray. We're discipling people. I mean, it's not like we're not doing this, but we're not connecting spiritually as much as we wanted to. And then we talked about parenting, and whatnot, we're driving out of the driveway, and Kathy says to me, she said, I really wanna do that 20 minute thing. And I said, what? It was like one of many conversations. She said, we should be doing 20 minutes a week. I want that. So I said, okay. I said, I don't wanna do another Bible study. I'm already leading too many Bible studies, so let's do what they did. They kind of just read something and they pray. I'm cool with that. She goes, when do you wanna do it? And I said, it doesn't matter. She goes, Sunday's nine o'clock. I go, that's a weird time, but we've got the kids in bed and whatnot. So I'm okay. So that Sunday, I was watching a Laker game. I happened to like the Lakers. And Kathy comes and takes the little clicker and goes, puts it on pause. I was like, what's going on? She goes, we're gonna have our closer time. And I go, closer? I'm thinking, closer? Are we going up to the bedroom at nine? This is awesome. And she goes, no, no, we're gonna do that spiritual thing we were talking about. 20 minutes. You can watch the game later. I went, okay. So she brought stuff. We read scripture. We sort of talked about it. We prayed. And then I got that clicker and went right back to the Laker game. And then we did it the next week, and we did it the next week, and we did it the next week. You know what? It changed our lives. I'm not saying much of the conversation we had. It was the commitment that we had. It was building the foundation. I honestly think some of the anointing of God in our family and in our marriage and in our ministry happens. Nobody sees it. We still do it. And it's not all that sexy. We ended up actually writing a book. It's called Closer, where we challenge couples to do that. Nobody ever comes to me. You don't need to buy the book. Nobody ever comes to me and goes, the words in your book were amazing. You know what they say? It was the 20 minute commitment time. I had saw, I was in Atlanta, like I said yesterday, and the night before I had spoken at something and I wasn't speaking, I was talking on doing life with your adult children. And people were coming and giving me closer going, this was so key to our marriage. See, became the bestselling devotional in America. Well, it started out of this deficit with us. And I can't say that every time I'm like, this was amazing. What I'm saying was, most of the time for us, it's restoring us because we're praying together, because we're connecting spiritually, see. And so that makes us better parents because we're better at our marriage, see. The least developed area of intimacy, a lot of times in a marriage is spiritual intimacy. And then the last one is recreation, play. So my PhD is on traits of a healthy family. And I took 10 traits of a healthy family and I wrote on it. You know what the number two trait of a healthy family is, play. I wish I could tell you pray, but that's down the list. I'm not saying, I believe that people who pray together stay together, but I also believe that recreation and play is a good thing. Now, when you got little kids, that's easy. You got older kids, it's a little tougher. Our family now with our older kids, we play by eating. I was on the way here, Cathy has a significant birthday coming up and I talked to two of my daughters about we're gonna take, the girls are going on a girl trip and they're gonna take her away and take her to La Quinta and they're gonna be there for the weekend and they're gonna play. And for them playing will be shopping, fun, food, hanging out at the pool, just those kinds of things. That's play. Whatever your family does to play, but play brings people together. I wrote a book called Have Serious Fun and 12 other principles, but the have serious fun part, was that families that play together, they connect in so many other important things. So that's the lesson of the Sabbath. There's another lesson, the lesson of what I'm gonna call discipline and grace. And we could spend a lot of time on this. You can do all of these all day if you want, but how do you create a grace-filled home? Well, I think we do it through discipline. And so now you go, oh, are you talking about punishment? No, I don't think we really help our kids much when we punish. But let me give you five quick principles here under this. Rules without relationship equal rebellion. So a lot of times with Christians, we become rigid with our parenting. Rigid parenting causes kids to rebel. Now, by the way, lenient parenting causes kids to have, they drift, they don't know what to do. But rules without relationship equal rebellion. So if you're a parent who's the rule master, then your kids probably don't have much of a relationship with you. Do you have rules? Of course you have rules. Of course you establish discipline, but you gotta make sure you establish the relationship too. Also, choose your battles wisely, but win the battle. So number one, don't argue with your kids. If you've got a strong-willed child, like all three of my kids, if you have a strong-willed child, don't argue with them. Okay, I think you say things like, if I was your age, I'd feel the same way. Nevertheless, and that word nevertheless changes it because it gives you authority. I tell parents all the time, it's time for you to lead. You can't be your kid's best friend. You're too old. Your kids, I don't care if you're the youngest person in the room and you have a kid, you're too old to be their best friend. They think you're old. Right? I was sitting at some restaurant when I was in Atlanta, and I heard these guys come walking in, and they go, oh yeah, you're talking about a coach. Oh, he's old, he's at least 40. I'm thinking, at least 40? That's not old, that's like just a young buck for me. But anyway, choose your battles wisely. If I was your age, I'd feel the same way. I feel your pain, nevertheless. See, those are the kinds of words you use. And then nagging doesn't work. Whoever thought that was a great idea? If you're negative Nancy or negative Ned and you're nagging all the time, do you think your kids are really hearing that? No, they're just hearing blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Nagging doesn't work. Don't be afraid to admit your mistakes. I put that right in as we think about discipline. And then also, clearly express your expectations. What we found in ministry, as I started interviewing kids who are at risk, I would say, do you know what your parents expect of you? And you know what, they'd all say no. And then we'd say to the parents, have you told your kids what to expect? Have you talked about boundaries, negotiated those things, and they all go, yeah. But there's a disconnect. And what we find out is a lot of times, we think we're doing that, but we're having a conversation in our own head. And we're not actually expressing our expectations. Kids wanna please you, see. Now I could go a lot, I mean, there's great books to read on that. There's great things. That's something you may need to think through. But the other thing I wanna talk about is the stages of parenting. And I see that there are all stages here. I love this conference. And when Ken invited me and then he told me what we were gonna do, I was like, yes, this is so awesome. So the stages of parenting. So let's just walk through them. So stage number one is gonna pop up here. And I call that the catering stage from birth to two. Basically, you're doing everything for your child. My daughter Heidi, her son, my grandson Huxley is his name. He just became, he was just two in September 2nd. And she's like, okay, so now that he's two, he's supposed to start paying attention to me and obeying me. And he just drew on the wall. And I'm like, dude, that happens. Okay, but between zero and two, you just basically cater. If they cry, you pick them up. If they are hungry, you feed them. If they poop, you change their diaper. Or you get your husband to change their diaper, whatever it is. How many of you have kids zero to two? You can't discipline these kids. It's impossible to discipline them. All you're doing is catering. And what you're doing is building a foundation for the next phase, which some of you control freaks will like because it's stage two called controlling. Two to 10. You micromanage in the best sense, you're micromanage them. In the best sense, you're taking care of your child's life and keeping him or her safe, right? And so again, you're not gonna let a four-year-old go to the mall. I hope you don't let a 10-year-old go to the mall. You're not gonna give a 10-year-old a cell phone and say you have total access to the internet. That's crazy, see? But what we sometimes do that, but again, you're in control. By the time they're nine and 10, they might have some other responsibilities like you're in control, but they need to make their own bed. Yeah, you're making your kids bed at 18. That's not good, no bueno. That's enabling them, okay? The next one is coaching. Now this is hard for you who are control freaks because coaching, what that means is you've moved from control to coaching. You're kind of weaning them, right? It's not easy for the weenie or the wiener. You know what I mean, okay? You begin to let your child make some of those decisions. Go back to coaching. You begin to let your child start making some of those decisions. It's not easy if you're the controller, but coaches are in charge, but they begin to allow the kids to learn. Watching the most hilarious baseball game last week with my seven-year-old grandson, and it just cracked me up because he went to third base, okay? He said at first base, it's like, that's hilarious, okay? And everybody's still cheering him, I loved it, okay? But I'm saying you're coaching, but he's gonna learn through that. Then you move to consulting. Anybody here have 15 and above? Yeah, a lot of you, okay. So you're consulting. By this time, you're basically allowing your kid to make most of the decisions, and you're going, you don't understand my kid. No, I do, it's a hard stage. But basically, you're preparing them for what? Responsible adulthood. And so we have a whole bunch of adults now who are having a failure to launch, partly because we're not allowing them to, I mean, we're still consulting, we're still guiding, we're still leading. They're living in our house, there's rules and regulations. But the point being is you've got to begin to help them make some of those decisions. And I'm just gonna tell you, experience is a better teacher than advice. Now you go to the last stage, this is your goal, okay? How many of you have adult kids in here? Okay, yeah, quite a few, wow, wow, wow, a lot of you, okay. Your job as a day-to-day parent is done, okay? That's hard. And in fact, C.S. Lewis said that any transition is a loss and grief. And some of you have to kind of mourn that loss and grief, but your relationship is changing. So I've got two principles for you. They're not here, they're in a book called Doing Life with Your Adult Children. Keep your mouth shut and welcome that out, which pretty much describes the book, okay? Number one, principle number one is you're fired. Your role as a parent has to change, and it's your job to give them the passport to adulthood, even when they're not perfect, and you're not perfect. And what's hard is you're learning how to be a parent of an adult, and you've never done that before, and they're learning how to be an adult, and they've never done that before, so things kind of crash. Here's the second one. Unsolicited advice is usually taken as criticism, right? And so what they see, your intent is never wrong, but what they see when you give unsolicited advice is that you don't trust them that they're an adult. It's funny, the book, Doing Life with Your Adult Children is a bestseller. I think it was number three yesterday, and the book's been out since COVID, so it's been out when COVID just happened. And when I first came, I was speaking in, the book was brought out in, I happened to be speaking in Honolulu with about 4,500 people, and so we did an interview, and then I had to do a book signing, and it was all these parents of adults who were having me sign the book, but then every so often it would be like a 20-something. And I'd go, you can't have kids that age. I mean, you're an adult. And they'd go, oh no, no, this is for my mom. Just say, dear Claire, you need to read this book. You know, got to, but it was hilarious. So we've laughed at how many people have bought the book who are like in their 20s or something to go, mom, you need to read this book, you gotta back off. Dad, same thing. So again, that's what we're talking about when we're talking about stages of parenting. That's an important one. Let me go with another one. We're gonna take a break in about nine minutes, but I wanna make sure I get through this first session. This is the lesson of blessing. And I think this is really good because we need to bring honor and security to our home. And so are we blessing our kids? Now the word blessing is actually an Old Testament form, and you know what they did in the Old Testament, the patriarchs or the matriarchs, most of the time in that day it was the matriarchs, they would bless their children. They'd do some kind of a formalized blessing. We don't have that. I was in a small group with Kathy with these couples and we were gonna study a book called The Blessing. And no one in the entire small group said that they felt a blessing from their parents. And now we're trying to figure it out. So I don't know what your thing is, but I think there's four ways we bless our kids. This again is back to confident parenting. Number one is we speak the blessing. The Bible even says that with your words, you both bless and curse. We're called to bless. Your words have power. And it's just important for us to constantly be speaking blessings to our kids. I love the song that we played, or that was sung, we sang, right at the end. It's the blessing. It's a beautiful song. But will your kids, when they get, adults, will they say, my parents blessed me with words? Secondly, we bless them by believing the blessing. So sometimes with our kids, oh, their self images are off. I know they were created in the image of God, but their self images are off. There are things that are going on. And so it's our job to believe in them. There's power in belief. Jesus did that so well. There was a man named Simon, and he said, your name's no longer Simon. Your name is Petros, or Cephas in Aramaic, which means the rock. There was nobody named Peter back then, right? But what Cephas means is the rock, the stone. So Jesus had, I think it was a pun. Jesus said, upon this rock, I'm gonna build my church, and that's exactly what he did. I mean, pretty incredible. But he believed, do you believe in your kids? Even in the midst of their goofiness? We're called to do that, you know? And then thirdly is to be the blessing, to be the role models. I remember at Azusa Pacific, a long time ago, I'm sitting kind of in the back, back to the nerd section, where I kind of like to sit. My wife likes to sit in the front at church, and I sit in the back. I wanna sit in the back, so where do we sit? In the front, you're right. Yes dear is the way to keep happy for 48 years. But I was sitting in the back at school, and some bald-headed, nerdy-looking missionary, who I now realize I look like, he got up and he didn't say a little joke, and he didn't open the Bible, he just simply said, you are the only Jesus somebody knows. And then he said, you're the only Jesus somebody knows. He said it 10 times, I counted, I wasn't even paying attention. But then on the 10th time, literally the 10th time, he pointed right at me and he said, you are the only Jesus somebody knows. And he like locked his eyes on me. And all of a sudden, it was as if God spoke to me, I mean, not in audible voice, but you know, Jim, you're representing Jesus to a whole family that doesn't know him. You're representing Jesus when you go to the CVS, back then it was called Long's. You're representing Jesus. And what I realize now is I represent Jesus to my family, not that I'm Jesus. We're praying with Becca when she was about, I don't know, 16. We always prayed with our kids every night. And you know, when they were younger, they would pray and it would be cute, and then they got to be like, you know, 13, 14, 15, 16, and they didn't always wanna pray. So I'd give them the opportunity, and they almost always went, no, you're good. You just go ahead, go ahead, do it, make it happen. And, but Becca said, I'll pray. So, went good. She goes, dear daddy, and then she kind of giggles, and she goes, I mean, dear God. Kathy leans over and goes, her God looks like a bald-headed nerdy guy. And I'm saying that to you, see? So, you know, in many ways, we are the role model. We are, we be the blessing, if you would, okay? And then lastly is celebrate the blessing. I think it's really important that families celebrate blessings. You know, the Jews, they actually have, they celebrate rites of passage is better than we do. So the Jews at age 13, they celebrate the rite of passage to adulthood. Because if you look at Jesus, Jesus became an adult at 13. Mary was probably about 14 when she had Jesus. That's just, in our days, that's weird. I get it. But do we celebrate rites of passages with kids? Now, after we take a break in a moment, we're gonna talk about what's the fire is happening in terms of, you know, talking to our kids about sexuality and all the kind of craziness. I'm just gonna give you some good practical ideas on that, but let me talk about how you can celebrate that blessing. So I'm gonna give you a preview, if you would. So, rite of passages, do we celebrate rites of passages? I wrote a book called Pass It On, and the book is just celebrating rites of passages from kindergarten on through the time they become an adult. And it's really cool. Parents do it one time a year. I mean, everybody can do it, okay? But there's, I think we have 28,000 people, or families right now doing it. It's, yay, I'm so honored that they do that. But let's just take the issue of sexuality. So when do you start celebrating that, their sexuality? Ages three to five. And you're going, seriously? Yeah, because that's a stage in their life. Now, it's not like you're gonna say, oh, wow, you know, what's going on on television, and, you know, I wanna talk to you about porn, and, you know, sexting. No. But this is the time where you celebrate their bodies. And actually, what I'm gonna do is, I'm not here to read you storybooks now, but I just, you know, God made your body. So I think, very quickly, you say this. God made boys, and God made girls, and God made all shapes and sizes, and He created all colors and languages, and God made you. That's, you celebrate the fact that they are now getting in touch with their body. They were in touch with their body before age three, but now you can talk about this. Why? Because you wanna be the safest person for them when it comes, but you're also gonna celebrate it. God made some boys and girls with itty bitty noses. He made some with big ears. God made boys and girls with different colored eyes. Green, blue, hazel, brown, gray. What color are your eyes? See what I'm saying? So now you're taking them through a process three to five. You go, that's talking about sex? It actually is. But you're also saying God made boys and God made girls. And it goes on, of course, okay? Well, there's another phase. It's six to nine. How many of you have six to nine-year-olds? A lot of you, okay? Some of you, I also noticed that you had other age of kids in a different phase. So this one, how God makes babies, you're still not going through the deep stuff, but again, what you're doing is, do you know a family that's expecting a baby? You know why you do that? Because six to nine, every kid has lots of questions. It's a new phase. It's a new stage. So you're gonna celebrate that stage. So this is what really Christian education becomes, okay? I love this quote. God's plan for families between the ages of six to nine is when we begin saying, here's what God's plan for families is. We start here with Adam and Eve. Surprise, surprise. But then you gotta get to a place where every little boy has a penis. There, I said it. Brian probably talks about that from the pulpit all the time, but you know, every little girl has a vagina. Here's why I would do it farther. Look at these kids. If anyone ever tries to touch your private parts or ask you to touch their private parts, tell that person to stop, no matter who it is, even if it's a friend or someone in your family. They are not allowed to touch you in any way that makes you feel uncomfortable. If this happens, you can tell a grownup you trust. Right away, you can tell mommy, daddy, grandma, grandpa. Now you say, well, what is this about? How does this relate to celebrating rites of passages? Big time. Because it's a rite of passage and it should be coming from you, not from the internet. Other places, and we'll talk about that later. But the point that I'm saying is, is we do that, you can say, 80% of child sexual assaults are between people that they know, they love and trust, but because parents never talk to them about it, they don't get the privilege to celebrate their bodies, but also celebrate if something happens, you can talk to them and we will not get mad at you. See? So that's kind of what we're saying here. Okay. So the point that I'm saying today is that we can be confident parents, but we need a plan and we need a purpose and we can't do it by circumstance and chance or the world is going to kill us. And if you think that the culture is friendly, I'm not here to talk about culture, but if you think that the culture is friendly to us when it comes to energizing spiritual life in terms of making good decisions, in terms of morals and values like what I just shared, it's not gonna happen. So as parents, today, we need to be absolutely focused on becoming confident parents by having a plan and a purpose. Okay? So I'm gonna pray, bring kin up, I'll stay here for questions. By the way, Homeward has some books out there if you're interested in them. I choose to take no money from that. It all goes to Homeward, the ministry that I'm a part of. If you wanna look at that, I tell people read a parenting book a year, read a marriage book a year, they surely don't have to be mine, but if you're interested in any of those, go for it. But the point that I'm gonna say is, I'll stay here, take questions, and then we'll come right back in and we'll start talking about, in many ways, morals and values. Because when we think of discipleship, yeah, we do think about teaching them scriptures and teaching them spiritual disciplines, but also part of the job is helping them be people who have morals and values. And if you think it's gonna happen just by osmosis, or they're gonna get it from the internet, or they're gonna get it from their public schools, they're not going to get it from there. And so as parents, it's important for us to take the lead, and I'm gonna show you how to do that, okay, at the next thing, but let me pray for you. Lord, thank you so much for these men and women. Thank you for the fact that they've been able to continue to learn and just experience this day. Thank you for a church that would put this as a program. And I just pray, God, that if there's something that we need to walk away from, back to our family and take with us, show us what that is. We obviously can't take everything, but there's something that we can take. Thank you, God, for loving us. Thank you for showing us the way, and we love you in the name of Jesus, and everybody said amen. Thank you. Welcome to Homeward, I'm Jim Burns. I'm so honored that you are listening to this podcast or watching it on the Homeward YouTube channel. And actually, I'm very excited about this particular podcast. In fact, I've been looking forward to it for a long time. We have my good friend, Dr. Alice Benton with us. We'll talk about her in a moment. But we're going to talk about a very important subject, understanding and loving your child in a screen saturated world. I actually had to say the word saturated about three times because I kept messing up that word. But anyway, there is an apparent in America right now who doesn't want to create a media safe home. And we're all worried and we're concerned. And there's crazy things that are going on. And just recently, I had been talking to a bunch of kids and I said, how many of you are addicted to social media? There are 800 kids in the room and they all put their hand up. So everybody did it. But if I ask parents, how many of you are addicted? Well, if you were really honest, you'd have to say you were addicted to. Well, today we're going to straighten you all out. We have Dr. Alice Benton with us and I have so much confidence in her. She's a licensed counselor. She's a Christian counselor. And she is an expert in parenting, health and wellness trauma. And she's also a member of the New Life Live ministry team. And that means she's a cohost for the New Life Live radio show. And that's how I got to know her. I've been kind of bumping into her as I come on the show periodically. And I love this person. I'm taking notes when Alice and I tell her this all the time. I'm taking notes from her when she's giving advice to people on that great show. So Alice is married. She has three children. And I am so excited to have you with us. Well, it's quite the privilege for me to be here. Hey, by the way, you're baptizing our studio. Now, we've been in the studio, but you're the first in-person guest. So there you go. Lucky me. Honestly, we think that. You've written a great book. I told you that I've read the book twice. I may be the only person besides you and maybe Steve Hardburn, maybe not with him. He's my good friend who has read the book twice. But I love this book. And I think you've come at it at such a different angle than a lot of people when I read books on screen time and digital. And I want to give you a quote because this quote is from you, but I don't read things like this in other books on screens. And this is what you said. If you would have told me three years ago that I would advocate for an increase in my children's screen time and a decrease in my own screen time, I would have told you you were nuts. Well, just last night I turned on Little Big Planet, a video game for my six-year-old. I turned on the video game and I said, come on, let's play. I want to race you. I would never have done that before writing this book because I'm what's called a fearful limiter. And I think life is so much better getting off screen. Let's do all the wholesome things off screen. But I learned better through the research of that book. And so now I see the value in inviting my children on screen to do enriching, bonding things together. Now when you say that, do you, I mean, so he, I mean, your, your, your child went cool, let's do this. So, so you're seeing that what you're saying to parents is do it together. That's right. Because children want us to be interested in their interests. But truth be told, the last thing I want to do is play video games. I'm a workaholic. I'm all about productivity to a sick point if I don't rein it in. And so I want to get things done and sitting down to play a game, whether it's on screen or off screen, I really had to learn the value of that because I'm investing in relationship with my children. And presence matters. And you get that. And so, you know, whether it be digital or not, obviously there's other ways to do presence with them. But it's so key that you, you know, that you said that, I mean, I call it the power of being there. And that's, that's so key. Now you use the word limiter and in your book, you talked, you said parents tend to be either limiters, enablers or mentors. And I want you to walk through the difference in terms of, I mean, it's parenting, but you're talking about that even with screens. Those three categories, we usually fall into just two of them, which are on either end of the extreme. So I am a fearful limiter. My husband is an enabler. He's on the other end of the extreme. And I see this in couples and it seems to tend to fall on male female lines, not always, but often. So my husband is very relaxed about screens. He sees all the benefits. He has a lot of fun playing, watching sports. He probably wouldn't limit our kids very much at all if we weren't married. Whereas I would have not had a screen, a TV screen in my home for my children if I hadn't married him. And it's often based in our background, family of origin, but not always. My family had that style growing up and his was much more relaxed about how they use screens. But what research is showing us is that either end of those spectrums has its significant problems, both marital problems, because we're knocking heads when we're coming at it from opposite ends, but also problems for our children because they may not be either learning if they're too limited by me, they may not be learning the right kind of skills to be able to use screens wisely. But if there's too much enabling, there's a high risk of them getting into all sorts of trouble, especially if there's not much supervision of what they're doing. Now you use the word mentor to where is that? So mentor is sort of the compromise between the two. And it's realizing and accepting that there's so much enriching material online that we can teach our children how to use well and if done in moderation with parental leading, it is to their benefit long term. I appreciate you saying that sometimes I think screen time with our kids can really get in the way of a marriage. We're not talking about marriage today, but you know, Homeward is the large provider of parenting seminars in the US and one of ours is creating a media safe home. And I literally the last time I did it, I said to a couple because they were fighting one was I think a limiter and one was an enabler the way they were talking because she's going, well, he does it this way and she's this and and and I go, you know what, you guys need marriage counseling more than you probably need some, you know, counseling with you about your kids screen time, because again, it's one more way of communicating. But you know, we fight in marriage, we fight over this kind of stuff, of course, you know, when it comes to this. Now, you just said something you said in moderation and the question I wanted to ask you was even good digital, you know, like you played a game with your six year old, how cool is that? But good digital, do we still moderate that time? Or do we just say, hey, if it's good digital, we'll do it all the you know, all the time. We do still need to moderate even the enriching content, because we're finding that excessive hours on screen, which is really above about the two hour mark, that might be a shocking number for some people to hear. But it does start to have detrimental effects in behavior, in mood and stress level, even if it's enriching material, even just physically, the sedentary nature of sitting and engaging with a screen, obesity increases, autoimmune problems increase. So even though it's good content, it still should be in the room. I agree with you. Even when you said two hours, you know, when I teach on this subject, I'll oftentimes say hardly any screen time before 18 months. And then when they're younger, limited to, you know, much less. But what happens is, is we use it as a comfort. So self soothing the kids. So what happens is, you know, our 18 month old is going crazy. And all of a sudden, we put a screen our phone in front of them. And we see Thomas the train or whatever it is. And all of a sudden, they went from to just, you know, being comforted. You write a whole chapter on screens and comfort. Talk about that. Well, emotional intelligence and figuring out what we're feeling, what it means and what we need with our emotions is one of the more important tasks of parenting and of maturation. And because screens are such a great pacifier, it can be too much of a go to it's a cheap babysitter and it works. My children also immediately calm down. But then it's bypassing the process of figuring out why were you so upset and what do we need to do about it? And so I'm a fan of digital coping. I go on screen and it calms me down too. But it can't be our primary method of coping. Rather, relationship has to be the primary method. That's the healthiest way God designed us to be able to figure out our emotions and what they mean and what to do with them. Well, and this idea of comfort, you introduced a phrase called the comfort circle. Talk about that. I can't take credit for it. That's from my friend Mylan and Kay Yurkovich. They developed the comfort circle. But it's a process of prolonged listening, seeking to understand the person that we're listening to. And any time my children have been upset, disrespectful, disobedient, having a tantrum, and it looked like what an exaggerated way to respond to this small thing happening right now. The other day it was because my daughter didn't get enough syrup on her plate. She fell apart. Well, it looks like what a spoiled entitled brat. What's the matter with her? Let's just punish that. But when we do prolonged listening to figure out what's going on, wow, you're really upset. What happened today before the syrup incident? Well, then my children almost always reveal I had a rough day at school. My friend wouldn't talk with me. I thought daddy was upset with me. I thought you were mad at me, mom. It's almost always more than the triggering incident. But we don't figure that out if we just pacify our children with screen use. That would have shut my daughter up. But I wouldn't have found out about the accumulating hurts that led up to her discontent. That's really good. I wonder what it's like to have a parent who's a counselor. You know, sometimes it's very annoying. My wife sometimes will say to me, you know, I am not your client here. I'm your wife. I just that was spoken so well. But the idea of comfort and understanding the story behind the story is so critical. It's critical in every relationship. The interesting side, and I told you this before we started the podcast, that your book isn't just about screens. It's actually about parenting and about life and about relationships and about communication. And you know, you kind of sneak these things in. But that's a really good idea because again, I think a lot of times we use screens for comfort. We do. And then our kids do too. And we have to be careful on that. Now, Paul gave some advice to Timothy said discipline yourself for the purpose of godliness. And I love that scripture. And you talk about self control. How do you teach kids to have, you know, self control and how positive effects the positive effects I would say of self control. Self control was really the core mystery I was trying to unravel in researching this book, because I don't want to just limit screen use, even though that's my nature. I want my children to learn how to enjoy screens well and know how and when to get off so that they have that self control, not only with screens, but in every area of their lives. So how do we develop self control? Well, one of the surprising and fascinating answers I found was how much of a spiritual factor it is. So God tells us that self control is one of the fruits of the Holy Spirit. And how do we access those fruits? We do it by learning about him by reading the word and by practicing what we learned by practicing obedience. And so a major part of this book is how to integrate spirituality and use of scripture, because that's really one of the key ways that we help our children to develop self control. We also do it by our parental recovery process, because if I'm expecting my children to have self control with their screen use, but I don't have it with my own, as you pointed out earlier, children can sniff out hypocrisy. No, no, we have to examine our behavior. You're right. And so up my act and modeling really should happen before I try to clean up my children's use of screens. I looked into this of how many times I unlock my screen to check on anything, social media, email, anything. I started off at about 60 times per day. The norm is around 300. So I thought, okay, I'm not doing too badly here. And yet, we have this tendency to check our screens about every 15 minutes. And I'm guilty of that myself. So if I'm telling my children, you've got to do this differently, you've got to limit your screen use, but I'm not working on myself, it will not go well in the long run. No, no, you're right. We have to we have to have the discipline first before they have it. We're going to you know, children see children do kind of a thing. Now, when it when it comes to you're talking about spirituality and self control. And in that chapter, you talked about, you know, their Bible apps for kids that are amazing. I have two Bible apps that I have on my phone that I have grandkids and they love those. And they just think it's the greatest thing. And then now we watch Veggie Tales and whatever. So I'm kind of doing your what you've said to do. But I find that that's really, really helpful. But in your in your book, you also talked about even couples who have the discipline of praying together and and doing you know, reading scripture together that it actually is very beneficial to marriage. It is to marriage to the entire family. The statistics about people who have a touch with scripture at least four times per week. So that could be hearing, watching, reading. It decreases so many detrimental and addictive behaviors, whether that's pornography use, alcohol use, infidelity. Having a touch with scripture, the true living power of the word changes a person's character. And so I see screens as a great way for us to make the Bible attractive to our children by the kinds of apps and the cartoons that you're talking about. And by doing so, we're increasing their self control because we're helping them to access the Holy Spirit and God's Word. But we can do it in an entertaining, fun way. It's really cool. You know, my my grandson, James, who was actually in the studio yesterday, he's eight. And when he was younger, he they lived with us for about 13, 15 months, and kind of during COVID. And so I have this chair, and that's where I do my devotions every morning. And so I have my little journal, and I have my iPad that has the scripture on it. And I go through the one year Bible, and I read a devotion, you know, and I'm writing stuff. And so he would he and I would are the early risers. So he would be there. And so I started giving him this app, beautiful, you know, neat app. And it was actually, I mean, it wasn't like serious scripture as much as it was Mr. Phil. And it's the guy who actually created Veggie Tales. And I love him Phil Vischer. And so he would do his what he called, Votions. He couldn't say devotion. And Christie, my my daughter was telling me that James still he's kind of made a habit during that time. So he's still he wants to do that. And in his mind, he was doing what Papa J that's me was doing that he was doing his Votions. And I think getting kids connected to scripture at an early age on the screens is a very positive thing. Because when you say, you know, I read my Bible on a screen. That's one of the things I like to do. And, you know, I actually preach when I'm speaking, I use my iPad instead. And I had a lady one time say to me, she goes, You don't use the Bible. And I said, Well, I do. My text was Deuteronomy six, fourth, or ninth. It's actually the Shema. It's beautiful text. And she goes, No, you're using that machine. I thought, you know, I'm not going to convince her that I needed a cloth Bible. But the point that I'm saying is, is that if we start with our kids with Bible apps, and you know, there's free Bible apps, the you know, the I mean, just fantastic things out there. If we start them doing that, and if we engage them, we're actually having, you know, faith conversations with our kids at a young age. That's right. And you're saying that's a good thing. And they are interested in it capturing them at that young age to attract them to scripture first by modeling and then by invitation. We can get kids interested. Oh, really good. I'm so glad you wrote about that. You used a word and I liked it. What does it mean to reset your expectations with screens? Well, we certainly had to do this in our household. It means parents coming together, hopefully in compromise. My husband needed to reset, he needed to learn that limiting is good for our children. But I needed to learn that flexing is really good for our children. We live in a multigenerational home, we have the blessing of having a grandparent in our home. And so we needed to triple flex, because we each had our own style of screen use. Those were some tough conversations. No, and you wrote about that, where you had some feelings different than your mother-in-law. That's right. And so you had to kind of negotiate that. And that's always hard, because a lot of times the grandkids go to the grandparents, screens are available at all times, the TV is on for 12 hours a day, they're watching stuff that they're not able to watch. And what do you say to that? What to the to the parent who's actually in charge? How do you have those hard conversations? Well, first, we have to examine ourselves, because as that limiter, I didn't see value in all that screen use. And yet I learned and I realized that the time they spent with their grandma on screen, that was her way to bond with them. She taught them about space. She taught them about ocean life. Just the other day, for Mother's Day, one of my children said, that's one of my favorite things with grandma that she taught me about space. So that was her way to build relationship with them. My children love playing video games with their dad. He's good at it. He enjoys it. They bond. And so resetting the expectations both means seeing how screen use can actually enhance relationship, but how limiting it helps our children to grow in character. You know, this is what I really like about your book. Again, it's called Understanding and Loving Your Child in a Screen Saturated World. What I like about it is, you're not just saying no, screens are all evil. And yet there's some evil stuff that comes from the digital world big time negative. We'll talk about that after our break. But what you've said, and I really like this too, is you said this is just a good parenting phrase, but you said access is leverage. What did you mean by that? And how do you use that in almost really disciplining your kids or giving them positive consequences or negative consequences? Access as leverage is such a powerful parenting tool that I think many of us don't realize we have, we hold it and we can motivate our children. So my children dislike doing chores. They dislike their math homework. There's a whole list of things they dislike. But if I will say... I dislike doing chores too. I have to do it. Kathy makes me. I'm the oddball that likes to tweet them. If I tell my children, you're welcome to your screen use after you've completed these things. It takes so much of the argument out of it. I'm not forcing my children to do their math homework or their chores. In fact, I can't force them. I'm not going to put my hands on them and make them do the things I want. But if I can link it to something that they desire, and then I withhold that privilege until they've completed the task, motivation increases, attitudes improve, and there's less argument and tussle about trying to get my children to do the things that are good for them. No, it's so good. So what you're doing is you're using the access, you know, do your chores, and then you get access to 30 minutes of screen time or whatever it might be. Exactly. Yeah. If you don't do your chores, you don't get the screen time. That's right. And that's the tough part of us parents having to hold strong. If it's an empty thread, it doesn't work. I mean, we're teaching our kids consequences. I mean, as adults, we have consequences. We're going to take a quick break. Now, you may be the only person, and I have such high esteem for you, but when you said you liked chores, you may be the only person in America, in the world. We have listeners all over the world. You may be that only person that likes chores. The satisfaction of a clean sink? That's a life well lived right there. No, that is true. And that I think I'm married to a person just like you, because that's her. I mean, honestly, when she was gone, when Kathy was gone, and our kids would have time to, oh, we'd go to, you know, we'd be doing all this stuff, and you'd sink a mess and whatever. And I'd go, okay, it's, we got to clean. Mom's coming home. And so everything has to be clean. And so then Kathy would kind of look, and she'd go, you know, there's a dish over there. I miss the dish. But anyway, anyway, we're going to take a quick break. We'll be right back. Dr. Alice Benton is with us today. And we're talking about understanding and loving your child in a screen saturated world. Great, great stuff. And when we come back, I want to talk to Dr. Alice about focusing on what is pure. And what do we do when we catch our kids with pornography and some other things too? Anyway, we'll be right back. Don't go away. Hey, I'm Kelly Fellows. Did you know that Homeward also has resources for parents and married couples? You can find all those resources at our website, Homeward.com. Also check out our YouTube channel, where we create one minute video vitamins to encourage parents and to resource couples. Check those all out at YouTube forward slash Homeward, and also our website, Homeward.com. Now let's get back to our podcast. Welcome back. I'm Jim Burns. And again, I am honored that you are listening today or watching us on the Homeward YouTube channel. I'm wearing blue. You're wearing blue. So the people who are listening, which is the majority of people, they don't get to see, you know, that we match today. I didn't call you and say, wear blue. But anyway, I'm privileged to be talking with you. And we're talking with Dr. Alice Benton. We're talking about screens and how important it is. And again, if you have a question for us, you can call our podcast voiceline 24 seven. And you can ask a question, you can make a comment. And we listen to every comment. We listen to everyone. And on the show notes, that's the number. And you can find that there. Now, Alice, I want to get to this, the issue of helping your kids focus on what is pure. You wrote a great section on that. And you know, I think the bit one of the bigger fears for parents is that they're going to find pornography. And they do, you know, boys look at it by age 10 girls now alleged age 11. I mean, it's, it's fascinating, you know, studies that are going on. And what you're saying is, how do we help them recover from kind of some of the toxic behaviors with with screen addiction? That's what you talked about. I want you to tell us what happens when in your mind when our kids see porn, or how do we help them from, you know, looking at all the bad stuff and focusing on we've been talking about the good stuff. I think we parents need to brace ourselves not that if it will happen, but it will happen. And so let's start preparing our children from a young age. And I think we do that by making it an open topic for discussion, and using parental humility. So both my husband and I access pornography, I think I was about 12 years old, the first time I did, saw it in a hotel room and snuck back to watch more later. And so if our children know that we parents have stumbled, and you kids, you'll see pornography eventually as well. And so this is what I want you to do when that happens. We make it safe to talk about and safe to admit. And, and we make it okay to be imperfect, because we all are and we all will be. And so in preparing our children in that way, the hope is certainly that they will be open if and when they do see it. Because children report that they have seen pornography, even though their parents report they don't think their children have. And so there's a disconnect in the lack of conversation. Embracing ourselves that it will happen, it then prepares us to handle it better when it comes up. Because of course, we parents are going to be terrified and panic and will probably be angry at our children, and might think that it's their fault. But it almost always starts off as an innocent victim exposure to pornography. But we do have to be strong, tough, loving and firm when it happens. But again, using that humility, being empathic for our children that they saw this, and then coming up with a plan together with our spouse and the child of how are we going to recover from this? How are we going to mend it? Yeah, yeah. You know, we use the word at the very beginning of that, of this part of the conversation, you said the word safe. And I think we become we want to be the safe people that they can talk to. And if we're only angry, or we never talked to them about even healthy, positive sex education, then I think what takes place is we're not safe. So if they saw porn accidentally, or their friend said, Do you want to see so and so here, she's on YouTube with her top off or whatever, all of a sudden, they exceed it, but they don't feel comfortable talking to parents. I don't think I would have ever talked to my mom or dad, if I would have, you know, had some kind of sex type questions, or if I would have seen pornography or whatever, because they weren't safe, they never mentioned it. And what we see is in here in the United States, and I think it's even more so around the world, that parents don't talk to their kids about healthy sexuality. And so of course, they're like, my parents talked to me about school, you know, studies, screen time, all this, but they never talk about sex or sexuality. So when the porn thing happens, I think sometimes what takes place is the parents don't know what to do. So they're like, you're off the screen for the rest of your life. And you're a horrible person. Well, that doesn't help. And we weren't safe. So the last thing they're going to do is come and talk to the parents again. So it helps to look at it as a family problem. You come from two imperfect parents, and we're all going to be dealing with this struggle at some point. But letting our children know, if I do find out you're accessing any kind of dark content, pornography, graphic violence, if I find out and you don't tell me about it, then there will be consequences, there will be screen loss, but I'm also going to take responsibility, because I'm going to imagine that perhaps there was a lapse in my supervision, or I wasn't doing enough heart connection check with you at that time. So I'm actually going to enter the recovery process with you. I'm going to fast, I'm going to abstain from something myself, because this is a family problem. We know that in any addiction, the 12 steps of recovery are one of the most powerful and effective ways to get out of addiction. So we recommend that we actually start those 12 steps in our family before the next addiction reveals itself. And so we practice those 12 steps in my household on a regular basis, because I want my children to be in recovery now, because they're already a bunch of little sinners, and they come from two sinful parents, we all need recovery already. And then it prepares us better to handle. No, that's good. The way I say it is, is a sinner marries another sinner, and then you have sinner things. But you know, there you go. But you're so right. And the other thing that I love that you said is that it, and I would say this is probably one of the most often asked questions when I'm talking on teaching healthy sexuality, is parents go, how do I talk to my kids, I blew it, or I've seen porn, or I've done this. And what I heard you say is to say, hey, the reason you don't have to go through every detail. But the reason I have such a passion is because I don't want you to do what what I did. And, and then what it does, it doesn't mean that they all of a sudden go, I don't respect mom or dad. What it says is, oh, I've got a person who understands some of my struggles. So very, very, very, very good. We think that as parents, we have to show our strengths to our children. And that's how we'll maintain respect. And our strengths can be admired by our children. But it's our vulnerability that draws them into intimate relationships. No, so good. So good. I want to come back to something that that you said, I want to ask the question, what if parents disagree, when it comes to screen time, and you we talked about this as your husband, you know, enables tends to be an enabler, you tend to be a limiter. But when there's really big disagreements on something, how how do they agree to disagree or recover? How do they stay firm? And yet at the same time, you know, create some negotiation here in this in this thing? Well, my husband and I have had some of our biggest marital struggles in dealing with this conversation ourselves. It goes back again to humility. And so if I'm the one who thinks that the screen you should be changed, and we limiters are the ones generally that want that, then again, we take a look at how have we interacted with screens? And how have we changed the rules? Because many of us while dating, I was fancy free with my husband, we enjoyed so much screen time and even some illicit screen time together. And all of a sudden, now that I'm a mom, oh, now the rules change. I'm really turning the tables on my husband. And so if I can come at this, rather than he's doing something wrong, and he needs to make adjusted adjustments in how he manages screen time. No, no, I need to make adjustments in how I've managed it. And look at how I've changed the rules on you. This is really unfair that I'm asking us to do this differently. But for the good of our children, can we consider coming to some compromises, and then it helps to lay out a couple of the things that are important to us limiters who are trying to be mentors. So maybe it's can we just keep dinner time screen free? Or can we agree to the number of hours we'll let our children watch per day? Yeah, there's a lot of things that you can actually agree on. I call this we time, we, we, because when people are in conflict, if we go into conflict on something, and we get defensive immediately, well, it's never going to work well. But when we become a we, we can actually resolve the problem. We didn't have to agree on everything. But we can agree on a lot of things. Like you'd say, you know, most most people would say no screen time at dinner. That doesn't always happen. But the screens are at a certain time at night, you you dock your phones, and you don't let the kids have their phone, or their screen, whatever the screen is, in the bedroom, things like that. And now you've got a lot of things that you can agree on, instead of just that one. It's really, really good. I want to ask you really a last question for me. At the end of your book, and I said your book is a good parenting book, besides just a good book on screens, you suggested that we build an interesting off screen life with our family. Give us some suggestions. Well, our primary job as parents is to prepare our children for the real world. And we do that by engaging them in real life tasks so that they build up their confidence, they build up task mastery, which has so much to do with building genuine self esteem. And young children are interested in engaging with their parents and even day to day mundane tasks. So the younger we can start the better. But whether it's taking my children out to change the oil on the car, my boys are you telling me that you change the oil in the car? So much respect for you now. I don't know how to change the oil in my car. You're you're unbelievable. My dad's a mechanic. So he made us all learn. And it's one of my favorite skills. My boys were fascinated with doing that. My daughter loves to cook with me. And it's always messy involving our children in these real life tasks. But over time, it becomes beneficial to the entire family. So better if we can capture their interest when they're young. But as long as they're in our home, it's never too late. I've had many teenagers tell me, I wish my parents had taught me to do the laundry, had taught me to cook. I actually wish my parents would help me limit my screen time. They also add, don't tell them that. But I do wish they would help me because I can't do it myself. Children want to learn. Yeah, no, it's so good. And even the like, I love that you went to mundane, I thought you were going to go to fun stuff, you know, you know, do things together, go to the park, you do and all that, of course, is right. But even the things of what and I'm still laughing about changing. Well, it's funny, I've known you now for over a year, and I'm laughing that you've changed all in your car. But when I have never done in my life, and I'm a little older than you. But, you know, those kinds of things are great. Get them cooking. I my wife does it so well with our grandkids. And she did a great with my adult daughters. You know, they put on aim prints, and they'd make cookies, and they do some of that stuff. And they it was actually fun. And I think it took longer than if Cathy was just doing it on her own. But you know, it was that it was that bond that happened. There are two things I lure my children with. If they will help me cook, then they can taste test and they love to taste the dough. They'll come and help. Another one is we build bonfires in the backyard and they're they love playing with fire. And if they can do it safely, what a skill for them to learn and that can draw them off screen when not many other things will. Yeah, so you're gonna make them be pyromaniac maniacs and eat cookie. Salvin. Fabulous. Hey, thank you so much for this conversation. We could go on and on. But this has been great. Dr. Alice Benton with us. Thank you. My pleasure to be here. Thanks for having me. You know, I want to before we close, I want to actually go back to what Alice talked about. She was talking about pornography. And I really I agree with everything that she said on that. I want to say a couple things to you that if you do catch your kids online, number one is don't freak out. Okay, that's our natural tendency is we freak out. But that's not gonna help anybody. Now again, you may have to pound the pillow, talk to your spouse, talk to your counselor, talk to us to some of your pastor, somebody with the issues and yet with them, don't freak out. And secondly is make it a teachable moment. So here we have the opportunity when they've been online, again, nobody's wanting that we have to put some limits into this. But make it an opportunity to say, it's not pornography is not what God intended. It's not this, it's this and then give them a biblical view of healthy sexuality at whatever age again, you have to do it with their age in mind. But if they saw pornography at age seven, then that's going to burn into their mind too. So you you give them healthy sexuality. And remember, when you have the conversations about healthy sexuality, I would rather have you have 101 minute conversations than one one hour conversation. Okay. And so it's really important to make that a part of the dialogue. So you know, make it a teachable moment. Also, create consequences within reason. So many parents have said to me, Yeah, I caught my boy online and you know, I, I broke the computer. I had a guy actually literally say I just took the computer and I was so mad. And I broke the computer. And I said, Wow, how'd that feel? He said, Well, two things. One is I was pretty upset that I just broke a $2,000 computer. He goes, and two, my, my, my boy was so frustrated, he didn't talk to me for two weeks. And so I never really got that conversation. So that didn't work. So have consequences, yes, but have consequences that, you know, work for you. Two others. One is find positive, healthy sexuality resources, if you would. Today, there are great resources out there. Homeward has great resources. We call it the Pure Foundation. We've got a book from three to five, six to nine. And the brand new book is coming out August 4 on a student's guide to sexual integrity. Those are books that lead with love practice kindness, but they teach kids at a certain level. So do that. Find resources like Covenant Eyes, other org, there's now good organizations on there to help you. And I really want to encourage you to do that. And then the last one is simply prevention is better than waiting. So make sure that you have you talk to your kids about healthy sexuality, but also that can prevent them from making some of those poor choices. So anyway, it's been a pleasure to be with you today. It's been great to have Dr. Alice Benton with us. What a joy. And I hope you'll subscribe. And I hope you'll tell others about it. Just had dinner last night with a couple who said that they had sent out our conversation with Dr. Jessica Peck, they'd sent it out to 10 people. So that's you're helping us when you do that. And these people wrote back and said, This is great, we're going to subscribe. And it's brand new podcast. So we're trying to get the word out that we can help you help your kids and help your and help you in that process. So again, thanks for listening. We'll be back next time. Welcome to Homeward. I am Jim Burns and today we're going to mix it up a bit. Okay, we have had so many people ask me to talk about doing life with your adult children. As some of you know, I wrote a book not too many years ago and it is still one of the best-selling books on Amazon in the topics of doing life with your adult children. So anyway, you've got a just-Jim day but I'm kind of excited about it because it's a topic that is near and dear to me. I actually think and I've seen this happen when I speak on the subject, doing life with your adult children. Even people with young kids go, oh I really needed that. So hopefully this will work. Now let me give you a quick backstory. My experience is I have done parenting ministries, I've written books for parents for years and years and years and people kept saying to me, what about adult children? I didn't have adult children so I'd kind of say, well you know I don't really have anything on that and there wasn't a lot to point to them. One day I get a call from two of my dearest friends, Dan and Pam Chun, who work with the Hawaiian Island Ministries and they wanted me to come out and speak at their conference. It's a great conference, I do it most every year and they said we want you to speak on parenting your adult children and I said well first of all I don't know if you parent your adult child, maybe you do life with them but I don't know if you parent them. So the correction was received and then they said, well will you do it? And I said absolutely not. I said I'm in desperate need to go to that session but Kathy and I are in over our heads. Our kids are in college, at least two of them were, and the other one was preparing for you know young adulthood and I said and it is blowing our mind. And so I said so no, well you know come and speak on something else but the time you have that particular workshop, please don't put me in because I want to sit in the front row and learn. So you know about 20 minutes later they called back and said no you're the one and they had already talked to my wife and she said oh I think Jim should do that. So long story short I started speaking on it. That session at the first one I ever did in Honolulu, people groaned when I said a lot of our friends and even us have kids who are violating values, they're straying from faith, they're going through all kinds of cultural changes, we're having arguments about anything from politics to whatever and honestly they groaned. Now people have probably groaned when I you know have spoken but they usually groaned silently. I don't see this but they groaned because they were identifying with me in such a big way. So it was kind of my rocket takeoff to beginning to do research but also very personal research because what Kathy and I were going through and in some ways continue to go through. We have adult children now who are in their 30s and it's a lot easier. I'm just telling you because we've kind of learned some of the principles but we still blow it on some of the principles I'm going to share with you today. So anyway that's kind of the quick backstory. So we'll talk about doing life with your adult children, keep your mouth shut and the welcome mat at. Let me say that again. Keep doing life with your adult children, keep your mouth shut and the welcome mat out and pretty much that describes what I'm gonna say to you okay and you're gonna not like some of these principles but I'm just gonna give you some principles out of doing life with your adult children, what I speak on quite a bit actually. You know you devoted two decades of your life to your children and you know you kind of got in the groove by the time they were teenagers. They did some experimental behavior or you know they were pushing you most likely, most teens do. That's kind of part of their job description but the fact is is that you're not needed now after these two decades. You're not needed day to day. You're needed. Your mom, your dad but you're not needed like you used to be and most parents tell me that they find this transition from say the teenage years to the adult years complicated, wonderful, confusing and you know depending on the day super good or super bad. I think Cathy and I experienced all of that in one day with each of our kids at times okay. I remember Cathy saying, wow I didn't see that coming and we kind of laugh at that now because we honestly thought, well we put our kids at a Christian school till they're in eighth grade. We went to church, they were in youth group, they were the president of fellowship of Christian athletes. You know they're gonna agree with everything we agree with and that wasn't the case. Even our daughter Christy, our oldest, remember her writing in her school newspaper at a Christian college. She said I had to disown my parents faith to own my own faith and that was a scary time for us because we didn't exactly know all that was going on but you know there were some things that she had to kind of well own her own faith and that wasn't easy. We had to realize that there was a parallel journey going on that our kids didn't know how to be adults so they never read a book on adulting. They didn't know what to do on that and we didn't know how to be parents of adults so this parallel journey was we were both learning at the same time and at times bumping into each other. Now ours is not the horrible stories that I hear most every day. Literally I heard a story today from a one of our people at Homeward who wrote me and said how can I help my daughter who's you know transitioning to become a son and we're crazy, life is crazy and you know really tough tough stuff and I and I get that. Ours was more mellow and today it's still more mellow but the fact is is that your adult children or if you have younger kids they will meander toward responsibility and actually even meander toward marriage. What I mean by that is like Kathy and I just celebrated a big anniversary. We got married one week after Kathy graduated from college and that was not that you know weird back then. Today that's a little strange. So we were fast you know adults because we had you know payments to do and we had rent and we had all these kind of things and we had to grow up pretty quick. That's not the case in today's world a lot of times. So I'm gonna give you some principles. I'm gonna teach by principles today on this podcast. Principle number one goes like this and you may not like this. Are you ready for it? You're fired. Well you're fired as a day-to-day parent. So what that means is you have to reinvent the relationship that you have with your adult child and give them the passport to adulthood because that's part of your job description and you have to rewrite the script of letting go and that's not easy. That's not easy for parents but it's also it's not easy sometimes for the kids either because they're used to you parenting a certain way and you know sometimes we parent them like they were still children. My kids said that about only Kathy. I'm just teasing actually me too and often what we have to realize is that we have to deal with grief and you know what's fascinating is CS Lewis said this so well. Change always involves a sense of loss and so why you have to give them the passport to adulthood and why you're fired as a day-to-day parent is because they're they want their freedom and they will never become responsible adults which is the bottom line if we don't give them that freedom. So as their roles change so does your role change. So I have a friend and I'm not gonna name her name but she's and I speak at quite a few things and she's actually a major executive at a major tech firm in the Silicon Valley. Very bright, very rich actually and loves God like crazy and she's really a dynamic person. She's a privilege to speak on the platform with. She's actually from Asia and came out here when she was younger and you know she has the Stanford degree and she has another Ivy degree and you know she's brilliant. So she was telling me one time in the green room we were both speaking at a conference someplace I think in Chicago and she was telling me she goes my mom is driving me crazy and I just love hearing this from a 45 year old but she said so you know we moved my mom out after my dad died she was living in Asia. Came out we bought her home and we're kind of setting her up and you know I get there as often as I can. I'm kind of busy she is busy. She said I was over at mom's and mom had fixed us dinner and she insisted on a certain meal that's from her country and the children don't like this meal but no matter what she said I told my kids grandma's making this you're gonna have to take a few bites and move some things around right. So as they're getting ready to go she was putting on coats for the kids she said it was cold that night she lives up in Northern California it can get cold there at times and she was putting on coats for the little kids she has little kids and her mom says to her honey put on your coat it's cold outside and she said Jim I know this didn't this isn't the right way to you know I honor my mom but I just kind of blew it and I said mom mom why are you telling me what to do I'm 45 years old I brought you out here this home I bought for you I want to honor you but you don't need to keep telling me what to do so why would you tell me to put on a coat I'm I'm responsible and the mom said I'm telling you to put on a coat because I'm your mother put on the coat it's cold outside so I said to her what did you do and she there's one young woman said well I put on my coat we just kind of laughed we're still obeying our parents even at 45 right. The point that I'm saying is the mom probably needed to understand that she had to change her role and she probably didn't want to give her daughter all this advice unless it was asked for and speaking of that here's the next point principle number two if you didn't like principle number one that you're fired as a day-to-day parent you're gonna hate principle number two but principle number two is unsolicited advice is usually taken as criticism I mean just is right so I you know I'm the guy who goes well why does she need to go to Europe to find herself I can just you know tell her right here bring her into the living room and in five minutes I can tell my daughter what to do or how to live and you know I'm that guy but they don't want that experience is a better teacher than advice can I say that again experience is a better teacher than advice and they need to experience basically what whenever you give advice and they see it as intrusive what they hear is not the good advice because your intentions are fine but what they hear is you don't trust them to be an adult or to be all grown up and frankly for a lot of us there's probably some reasons why because we don't think they're doing it right but nevertheless they are now the adult and so anytime you give advice if it's unsolicited they'll probably take it wrong and so we have to be careful with that in fact I'm telling people that you know what you have to do is even ask for advice we did this with our daughter Christy one time and I said to Christy and her husband I said hey can I give me some input on this and she said not now dad and I went okay about two weeks later somehow something came up and it had been a disaster I could have my advice would have been good better and and Christy said dad what were you gonna say and I told her she goes well dad why didn't you tell me so sometimes it works sometimes it didn't but she didn't invite me to give her advice so experience is a better teacher and again I you can't see this you who are watching on the Homeward YouTube channel you may be able to see it but you know I've got scars in my tongue from biting my tongue because I'm the advice giver Kathy also is the advice giver but I think you give permission your role has to change and your role changes to a mentor and to more of a coach and as my kids have gotten older now I really think the role has moved where I am now not the advice giver I'm more of a mentor and you know what happens is most well on almost a daily basis at least one of my three daughters I have all girls one of my three daughters will call me and ask for advice one of my son-in-law yesterday asked me for some advice so that's becoming a mentor and that's really where you want to be and you say but my kids aren't together my kids have violated values my kids don't agree with me on this well I got it but your job is to help them become responsible adults and to do that you're gonna have to keep your mouth shut by your tongue the Bible actually says and so blessings and cursings come out of the same mouth now you would never think that your curse putting a curse on your kids or cursing at your kids but when you tell them and give them advice they see that as a curse so be their strongest cheerleader and wait to give them advice when they ask and you know what they will eventually what's that movie filled of dreams you know if you build it in a cornfield in Iowa they will come and the truth is is if you'll keep your mouth shut they will ask you for advice and that's an important one so principle number two number three goes like this become a student of their culture so their culture let's pretend your young adults are Millennials or they are Gen Z they look at life differently only because they've been growing up in a different culture and and they don't grow up as fast you know somebody once said you know who is this kid and why is it taking them so long to grow up and I think that's an important concept to understand that their culture is different than your culture now what are some distinctives of their culture number one is they are shaped by technology I know you're shaped by technology we're using technology right now you're listening to a podcast but their life is shaped by technology most likely they work with their computer if you go to any Starbucks in the world there are people who are making that their office that's how they communicate that's how they relate my daughter Heidi just the other day was talking about one of her high school friends and she goes I talked to her most every day and I'm like she lives in New York you get on the phone and you talk and she's like no not the phone dad I mean I text I DM but yeah we're in constant relationship but it's not the old style if you would so they're shaped by technology that's that's neither good nor bad it can be scary if it's you know the best scary stuff of technology but here's some good news the good news is that what they're studying with Millennials we haven't seen it yet with Gen Z because they're too young still they're still you know in their you know mid-20s pretty much maybe creeping up a little bit but what we find with with this is that once they get married now they've meandered toward marriage but once they get married they are number one thing they want a good marriage and they want to be good parents so as a parent or now as a grandparent even it gives you a chance to come back into their life and cheer them on they're gonna do it differently but that's one of the distinctives is that they do want a healthy marriage and they do want to be good parents and and here's another biggie and this causes all kinds of tension in homes all over the world but they view tolerance as a major sign of loving person so if you have biblical values that they believe is would not be tolerant whether that be politically whether it be socially whether it be when it comes to sexuality you just name the list if you're not tolerant then they don't see you as loving and yet what I'm finding is that we can be loving and not agree and just actually have to agree to disagree and I know you don't want me saying that because you're looking for how do I you know convert my kids and change them all but actually that's not your job that's actually God's job and so the fact is is that there's some really interesting conversations that take place around the Christmas table and the Thanksgiving table and when they come home from college and whatnot because they're in a different space than you are so what do you do you become a student of the culture and and what that has caused among many parents of young adults especially is what I call the cringe factor I mean it's not a phrase that I've made up I've heard the phrase before but we cringe we cringe because the these kids saw pornography at age 11 almost all the girls and boys you know see pornography by age 11 so maybe their first sex conversation or even visual was happening much younger than than you or you didn't have the first conversation with you know pornography with friends or you know whatever so pornography cohabitation has changed so when I was growing up when I was a teenager 75% of the population in the United States said they would not live with someone before instead of marriage today about 75% say that they would live with someone before instead of marriage so you've got you know the cringe factor with parents who are saying I had no idea that this was going to take place with my kids by the way just a side quick side note we talked about some other time on this podcast but for people who do cohabitate there is a greater chance of divorce there's a greater chance of adultery in the marriage once they get married there's even less sexual satisfaction there's some fascinating studies that are coming out of the secular world they're actually saying cohabitation is not the smartest thing and guess what once again the Bible seems to be true but people make the Bible you know the great killjoy and anti sex or whatever well God created sex and he sees it as very positive but some of the rules if you would are guardrails to help people in relationships and a lot of young people at Millennials and Gen Z don't understand that gender identity confusion we could do that all day and then also spiritual life so even with Gen Z's the younger crowd there are twice as many atheists in Gen Z than even the Millennials that's from George Barna's Barna Ministries which does great culture work so that you know we could talk about this all day but I think it's possible to agree to disagree and still be in relationship with your kids and they could see you as a loving person but not a person who you know has to take away your biblical values okay now again we could talk about this all day but I want to move on so the next question is is this are am I enabling my kids or am I helping my kids okay by the way this is Jim Burns and you're listening to Homeward with Jim Burns podcast and honored that you're here we'll take a break in just a moment and we'll fill you in on more stuff but this principle is really key here it is they will never principle number four they'll never know how far the town is if you carry them on your back that's actually an African proverb I love that proverb so what we've done is we're the generation of helicopter parents and then there's even stronger but we have to land the helicopter okay and when we do that we have to make sure that we're not carrying them on their back okay I love the woman who came to me and she said you know my 22 year old what is not making his own pediatrician appointments well that's just weird on two levels one is why is he still going to a pediatrician and two well he you shouldn't be making his appointments you're still making his bed you're still calling the you know the school about a class or whatever it might be that's that's just weird but we do that our motives are usually right because we want to help our kids but in our motives being right and caring and loving our kids we're actually enabling a generation and if you enable a generation they become entitled and they don't become responsible adults and there's a failure to launch so we have to be careful not to enable dependency hardly anybody in their right mind maybe an emotionally kind of messed up person might try to enable dependency but we do that we do that with money we do that with how we try to help our kids and you know again the motives are good on our part but it's not working because the bottom line always is the goal is responsible adulthood okay so the result of enabling like I said is is kids who are entitled and when kids are entitled there's a failure to launch which moves to the fifth principle now again we can spend so much more time on this and I do in the book doing life with your adult children keep your mouth shut and welcome that out but here I just want to kind of give you a brief overview but the the fifth principle is move them from dependence on you to independence so if your real goal is responsible adulthood then you want to make sure that you're moving them from the dependence part on you then on to independence now again let's take finances so about 75% of parents help their adult children in one at one time or another you know that doesn't surprise me at all I'm not even down on that I just don't think you should do what one family I know they went into debt into their retirement fund to help their kids buy a house that's a lot nicer than theirs it was kind of the kids first home but it was the dream home and then the kids couldn't they never did have the money to really pay those mortgage payments and so they defaulted and then guess what there was estrangement in the relationship because of the because parents were mad but the parents should have never done that in the first place okay so it's complicated I know but we have to make sure we're not doing it that way so what do you do you land the helicopter and that's one of the hardest things to do but if not there'll be what and this is even a term it's a psychological term it's not a you know in the dictionary per se but but it's failure to launch syndrome you could actually Google me and you could see that and they tell you what to do if your kids have a failure to launch and a lot of times it's things we've been doing for them like making their bed fixing them dinner I have a woman who told me that she her son in is out of college living at home on their dime and she makes him a vegan meal and then you know she and her husband have a non vegan meal well I don't care if he eats a vegan meal I'm just saying I'm not sure you need to be making two meals every night for your son he might need to learn how to cook vegan and I'm sure there's some great people who do that but the point being is the mom doesn't need to take care of her son that in that manner periodically you do something great but again you don't want them to have a failure to launch so listen we're gonna take a quick break and when I come back I want to talk about the biggie people always say what about my grown child who's violated values strayed from faith and we'll camp out here for just a bit because there's I would say that of the principles that I wrote in doing life with your adult children I'm not talking about all the principles today but I would say the biggest is what I'm gonna call principle number six and it's on this idea that you know hey our kids are violating values so welcome back I'm Jim Burns and we've been going through what I call the just Jim podcast you know I ever so often we'll do this we won't do this all the time but periodically it's probably good just to sit and chat with you and have you be thinking about some of this and feel free to write us at homeward you can go to info at home word comm and we'll write you back if you have a question or if you have a comment we also have our toll-free voice line that you can call and leave a message anytime and and that's in our show notes and you can always go to the show notes and get all kinds of information other kinds of fun information that Mike Segovia and his team put together for us so I want to go back to principle number six there's kind of a drumroll here because this is the biggie and principle number six goes like this you can't want it more than they want it now actually we took that phrase out of the recovery movement because they say that when people are recovering from some kind of an addiction but parents are heartbroken and I understand why because their kids are violating values but too many parents want it more than they want it and how's that working for you it's not so you got to be able to help them make right and wise decisions and I actually think you can do this I love love this quote it's not mine but somebody googled it recently and it came out as my own quote but I took it from somebody else but I can't remember who I did it with but I've said this many times good thing Easter is a season and not just a day because some miracles take time so parents want instant change with their kids and are shocked that they've made some poor choices maybe those parents made poor choices said the younger adult ages too but it's important for us to understand that some miracles do take time some miracles are instantaneous some miracles take time and I just want you to know that this you're on a marathon with your children and you'll probably be with your adult children longer than you were with your children growing up and you just kind of yeah I mean it's shocking yeah if you become an empty nester you'll quite possibly spend more years empty nesting than you will with your adult I mean with your children in your home so that's just kind of freaky to think about isn't it What do you do when your child violates values? Well number one you offer them tough love. Now tough love does not mean what a lot of us think it is it's not that you're mean to your children it's not that you're hateful it's not that you're you know shunning your kids here's what tough love is. Tough love is allowing the circumstance of their poor choice to be carried out and then you show empathy so you know it's the kind of thing that you know oh man I'm sorry that you don't have enough money for this because you spent that money on something else but we can't bail you out but you know please come over and you know have a meal with us and you know what can we do to show love to you and and care without handing them something so tough love just simply means that you're allowing the poor choices that they live with or that they've done to live with those and they're gonna learn from those because you know you learn from that not from from somebody you know bail them out all the time which is the second point under this is when they violate values do not bail them out okay and that's hard for people I have a friend who his daughter was caught she was in college and she was driving with an open container of alcohol she was hardly at the she was she was I think she would she made it to the DUI level but barely and probably could have got that pulled but she had an open container so they brought her in and lovely young woman actually and doing a silly thing so he of course did bail her out of me came and got her at the at the police station and then he and his wife talked and they said you know what we're not gonna bail her out we could go to an attorney he has lots of money that my friend and he's easily the capacity to get this thing just taken away and he did and so that meant the girl young girl had to go to DUI school she was like in a world that she was not used to it went up on her sure insurance yet and she had to pay for the insurance it was on her record for 10 years 10 years meaning that employers could see this you know when you do a background check things like that the school could see it and they didn't do it well guess what this young woman is a really responsible young woman now and she doesn't drink and drive and she wouldn't drink ever with an open container and I think it's because the parents you know did that so I think that's a really really important thing and you can't be a one top one topic parent so many parents talk to me and they are heartbroken about what is going on in their life with their kids and you can't be a one topic parent just only focusing on this and continuing to focus nagging and supporting them that way I said to a woman a while back her daughter had moved in with her boyfriend she was not happy and I said does your daughter know what you believe yes does your daughter know how you feel yeah then expand the relationship so that when you expand the relationship you don't have to keep nagging her with this she knows what you believe she knows how you feel but keep the relationship intact now some people will think you shun your kids I don't think that so others might disagree with me but you know that's why we live in the world because we can kind of disagree but I don't think you agree with the daughter you just simply tell the daughter what you believe and think and then you you expand it because when she falls in this case with this woman that I'm talking about I'm telling you that daughter was gonna crash and when she crashes where will she go she'll come home because her mom was safe even though she knows that her mom disagreed with it see what I'm saying and there may be some consequences for that if she's moving with the boy maybe you don't give the college scholarship or whatever it might be see and then remember this and I love this story and I'll not close with this story but it's a very important Bible story it's a story of the prodigal son or what I like to call the loving father so the son as you remember in this story Jesus told this story the son asked for his inheritance which was quite brash and arrogant to do but he asked for the inheritance while he was young and the dad gave it to him why I don't know so the son went away and in the Living Bible it says he he he squandered it on parties and prostitutes and so while living so now he's in a pig pen and his only job is feeding pigs and he doesn't have enough food for him to eat and even the food that the pigs were eating looked good so you can tell where he's at he's in desperate and he all of a sudden said you know what I don't deserve to be my father's son anymore especially in the Old Testament days that was not gonna happen but I could be his hired servant and at least the hired servants have food so he goes back now the dad sees him from far away notice that and this is an illustration of God's love too but the dad sees him and the dad runs out to him and greets him with love and care how awesome is that that's what God does for us he loves us unconditionally not for what we do but for who we are so you know his son was lost and now he's found so he's treating him like that he gives him a coat and he has a party for him the older son hears this and is not happy and he said dad you've never done this for me I've worked enslaved for you I didn't take your inheritance and this dad said this I want you to listen to this the dad said all that I have is yours and that's not going away so in other words he didn't change the bargain with the young son but he was saying to his older son all that I have is yours you so this dad did this right the dad showed love but he didn't you know give some of this older son's inheritance to the younger son I just think that's an incredible statement so I think that's the way we we deal with this that's the way we we help kids who are adults become responsible adults for them to do that especially when they're straying and remember that you know sometimes they have to learn and sometimes they have to come back and sometimes you know it takes a testimony for them to do that and I think that's key so I think I'll stop right here there's more I could say even in that chapter in the book there's a section on what I call an anatomy of a lost faith and how do we help these kids who are what I'm saying are neglecting their faith and then they're drifting and then they move all the way to forfeiting their spiritual purpose and it's just heartbreaking to parents I understand that but there's answers for that and part of those answers is to allow them to understand that you know experience is a better teacher than advice and so yeah I mean we keep praying for our kids we keep loving on our kids and we be the safest cheer leader in the family even though they know we don't agree with them and you know what things change over the over the time and you pray again that our father who loves them even more than we do will draw them back to him so anyway just some thoughts today on doing life with your adult children and one of the things that you can go to Homeward and you can look at the book doing life with your adult children go on Amazon it actually is one of the top sellers right now it's crazy how that book continues to relate to so many people people are using it in small groups we have courses going home or and look at the courses there's so much offered at Homeward and other places now beginning now to help children who are adults and how parents who have children who are adults who oftentimes aren't acting like adults so anyway go to home or comm and you can get more information but we're gonna call it quits but you had a just gym day let us know what you think about just Jim you're not gonna get too many of them but I've got some great great guests coming up some of the most amazing guests and I'm excited to be able to share them with you on another Homeward podcast take care God bless Welcome to Homeward. I'm Jim Burns. I'm smiling today because this is going to be an incredible podcast. So honored that you're listening to Homeward and I'm so honored that you would join us. It's like I said, it's going to be a very good one. Charlotte Guest is with us and we're actually going to talk about Empty Nest Success. And I can't think of a better person to be a part of this program. Now don't go away if you're a young parent because you know what? Most people who go into the empty nest say they were not prepared for it. And I know that was Cathy's and my place. We were in shock because we were so busy with our kids and so busy doing stuff. And then one day it was an empty nest and we went, what is going on here? So Charlotte's going to help us with all wisdom about how to have empty nest success. You want to listen to it even if you have little kids. Now the empty nest, I just mentioned it, but I had no idea what I was doing in the empty nest. I just want to tell you. We love our kids. We put so much energy into life with our kids. And then one day we dropped our daughter Heidi off. She's our youngest at college and we drove home. I'll talk about it at the end of the podcast. But we drove home and kind of went, okay, now what do we do with the rest of our life? So what we're going to talk about today is how to have success in the empty nest. But you don't have success in the empty nest if you don't plan and have some purpose and have a mission on it. So Charlotte Guest is going to help us, like I said, straighten all of this out. She has a wonderful podcast and I've had the privilege to be on it. It's called Empty Nest Guests. So there's no pun in that since her last name is Guest. I love that. I love the podcast. I love what she does. And she will take us toward in that podcast, but also in the conversation today, how to have joy in the challenges that we have with the empty nest and how to really have a joyful and a full life in this season. So she's married to Gordy and he's a great guy. They've been married for over 35 years. They live in Tulsa, Oklahoma. You're going to catch a hint in a moment of this incredible, I call it an accent, people in Tulsa probably don't. And she's got three lovely adult children and two grandchildren, but I have a feeling there's going to be more on the way. So Charlotte, thank you so much for being with us today. Thank you so much. It's such an honor. My guests love you. They sometimes email me and say, get that gym guy back on. He's awesome. That gym guy. What's amazing is we're actually having a conversation and we had a scheduling difference and you're actually willing to come on with really thinking you're going to come on another day. So this is a privilege for us to have you on. Worked out okay. I tell you what, empty nesting, you got to be adaptable and you got to sometimes you just go, okay, this is what we'll do, but it's an honor to be with you. Thank you. Thank you for helping me as you've helped me and my family. Well, it's kind of funny. Kathy and I did a marriage conference this last weekend and a lot of times she doesn't speak, but she spoke at this one and one of them was on positive adaptability and how flexibility is so important in a marriage in life and with your kids and now we're watching you play this thing out. Hey, listen, I've got a question for you that's actually related to some of my younger listeners. We're talking about empty nest here, but like I said, very few prepare. What kind of advice would you give to a younger listener who, I mean, maybe they have teens or maybe they have even younger kids, but how would you say we should prepare for the empty nest? That's a great question. I was very fortunate in my life as I was doing this parenthood thing to have this precious mentor in my life named Shirley Stairs. He's in heaven now. She was on one of my podcasts and she, you know, she just kept encouraging all of us. If you are following closely with the Lord, holding his hand, seeking his will every single day, he's going to walk out how you need to do this time with your kids. And I would just encourage all of the younger listeners to think about the time that you really have left and they're his kids. First of all, that was a perspective that really helped me. It wasn't like these were, you know, Gordy and I had these kids. The Lord gave us these three kids and somehow miraculously moved them through my body and put them into our family to shape and mold, to enter this great big world and that they have a purpose. They have a plan. How did we do this as teen guests? But to just remember that, you know, you're really releasing them to do more of what God has. And so I think that perspective was helpful, but to just look at the time and there's a great thing that I'm trying to do these days is do these days is ask the Lord every day, what is necessary for this day? And I just heard that advice a little bit later, like after I became an empty nester, and it's kind of strange because as an empty nester, you have a lot more time. And so with this downtime, if you don't ask what's necessary, you can kind of twiddle your thumbs a little bit or you can have some time that's not filled unless you're caring for an aging parent or a grandchild. But some of that downtime is hard to fill sometimes for some people at the beginning. But I wish I would have known to ask the question every day of the Lord, you know, just Lord, what is necessary for today? Yeah, I love that. And all these things that we think, I loved the time in the car with my kids and talking to them about different things. And I would really encourage all the listeners, if you are not having a table time that is sacred in your family, even if there were times when our kids were soccer, baseball, cheer, volleyball, grab the wrong duffel bag, got their other kids knee pads, I mean, it was crazy. And so dinner was not happening for us. And you know what we decided to do? We did, we did like family dessert at nine o'clock. And somebody might have popcorn, somebody might have had Eskimos sandwich, whatever. I don't even remember what all the kids ate. But we gathered our family and we sat around that table. And we looked into each other's eyes. And it was made mainly just to say this, this team guest isn't going to always be here. So grab time. It's a great idea. Because a study recently out of Columbia University said that if people will have five dinners a week, and you know what you're saying is we couldn't get to five dinners. Well, they don't really mean like official dinner. But if they will have five times around a table a week, less sexual promiscuity, less involved in drug and alcohol abuse, and actually get better grades, and obviously closer family ties. Now the dessert is a great idea because who doesn't want the dessert of their choice? You just named every dessert that I like, and I must be hungry. I didn't have lunch today, so I'm hungry. So I want all of those desserts. But the what I'm saying is, you're proactive to release them. And yet you're also talking about, you know, really making sure that you're in a healthy place. Now Cathy, my wife, and she doesn't mind me talking about this, because she it's a part of her story. But you know, when our girls and we have all girls, so of course, we had no hormones or drama, we had a lot of cheerleading. We didn't have a lot of, you know, football. Well, we had football because we're watching the cheerleader. But Cathy was kind of the sun. And my three girls were the planets revolving around the sun. And then I think in our home, I was kind of the other planet, if you would. And, and one day she's there's no planets revolving around. And she kind of went into a what she would call the emptiness syndrome. But it was kind of a, you know, times of like, what am I going to do with the rest of my life somewhat, you know, she would, she's not a real depressive person. But she said she kind of felt more depressed, like, you know, what's going on now in my life? What do you say to the person who enters the empty nest? And they feel lost? Yeah, you know, it is hard because you do, especially when that last one leaves, I did all right, each one, the first two were kind of close together. And then when that third one, she was four years younger than everyone else when she left, it was our situation was a little different, because I had a crazy neck surgery, and we moved. And so those were two things that a lady that I talked to about lots of things that therapists that I'll talk to, said that for me, I was having to react to things instead of plan, because that surgery was really hard. But you know, I think, I think, just leaning in and really taking my cues of the what is necessary thing is is still helpful. But if you feel lost, and you feel that depression, there's definitely things that women need to do. Because whoever thought empty nesting coincides with menopause for us, it's just a rough thing. So you know, you need to check, check your health, make sure you're okay, that you're healthy, check your hormones, check all your blood levels, and talk to other people that are in the situation that you're in. And if you're feeling lost, I think what I've seen on my show, when I talk to different empty nesters, that's really unfortunate, is a lot of women will feel really lost. And a lot of men are processing and they're thinking, Oh, my gosh, we did this, you know, we got these kids ready. And they're, and they're, they're doing great. And they're out. And then the woman is on the other side of the little teeter totter going, but I'm down here, and you're up here. And, and you feel like you can't talk about it. That's what I've seen with a lot of women is, is you need to make sure you're talking about how you feel that will help you feel less lost. You know, that's so good. And you actually mentioned men and women. And it's funny, it was my next question for you, because you did a show where you interviewed somebody on the differences men and women have when they enter the emptiness. I know for Kathy, she felt what I just described. For me, I just went to work earlier and I went to work later. And it was kind of, I mean, I missed my girls big time. And yet, I didn't have the same what I would call emptiness syndrome until I really realized, No, I'm not handling this good. Why do I need to go to work at seven now instead of at eight? And why do I need to stay till seven instead of, you know, five or six or whatever? What, what kind of advice can you give to somebody you talked about feelings, obviously, for a woman, I agree with you, boy hormones, but also they're going through they may be taking care of an elderly parent, they may be taking care of other types of issues, there might be some finance problems, all kinds of things. But for the man and woman, you see the differences, what are some more of those differences? And what kind of practical help can you give us? You know, I think what I've seen in interviewing a lot of empty nesters talking to a lot of empty nesters, it's like the woman expects the man to understand how she feels without using her words. And so women, I really encourage you to say, you know, this is how I feel. And it's really hard. And I want to share that with you. And then the man to take a minute to really listen and think, even though he doesn't feel that way, that is so valid. And there are lots of women that get up and go to work and their days stay the same. But many people, the work was trying to get three human beings ready for the next phase of life. And things can come to a halt really quickly. The best advice that Gordy and I got is that I had a way that I was processing Gordy had a way, but we had to lean into the way. And we had to think about Jesus, how would he live? How would he do this? How would he love well? How would he, how can I love Gordy and not think that Gordy's wrong? Because he's going to work and he's thrilled that his kids are out and they're doing well and they've gone somewhere. And, you know, and then he also would think, you know, honey, he would say, how was your day? But then he would follow up with how are you feeling? How are you feeling today? It wasn't like a blanket, how was your day? And then I would say, fine. And then, you know, that worked well when three kids were swirling around and you're trying to get everybody out the door. But just to remember that there's no one right way. And if we follow the way, then we're going to figure each other out a little better. Yeah, that really makes a lot of sense. Now there's sing and you know, when you think about empty nest, a lot of times we think about couples, but there are single empty nesters as well. And they've had some big time losses because they lose. Talk about quiet. I was on, I do a radio show called New Life Live quite often. And I was, I did two shows this morning. And I was talking with one of the therapists who's also on it. And she was, she's a single parent. She said, when my kids left, it was, it was, there was no, it was totally quiet because I didn't have my husband there anymore. And so she was talking about that loss, the loss of feeling it with her husband, the loss of feeling, you know, her kids being gone. And another woman said to me that, you know, what she did for the first week was she just curled up, watched television and ate a half a gallon of ice cream every day. So obviously you don't want to do that. Any advice to the single empty nester from just your experience? Yes, I have six friends that are widows. I never thought that we would be there in our life. I'm 56. My husband's 57. We have several friends that are a little bit older and I have watched every single one of these women. They have done so incredibly well because they have Jesus at the center of their life. And so they, their faith is so important. But I've also watched these women. Some now I do have two or three friends that went through really rough divorces too. So that's another kind of empty because, because it's a, it's a loss they didn't see coming. But I would say, you know, there are lots of other women out there experiencing that, that if you can find them and connect and share stories and find, you, it's so hard. My friends have said to, you kind of want all this to come to you, but watching their intentionality of, I can either have this and be sad a lot, or I can be proactive and find a group, find something to do. You know, you don't want to say the trite response of find a pottery class, but for a lot of people, find something that you've always been interested in and remind yourself that you are so worth it. You have a lot of life to live and these kids are going to respect the heck out of you. If you're strong and you're, you're leaning into what, what is your what's next? The Lord has great things for you in store too. Yeah, that's, that's, that's great advice. And it's interesting that every answer, you know, you keep kind of coming back to, you know, putting energy into their faith. And that really is the part that sometimes people don't put the energy in. And so when a single, whether it be a single empty nester or not, as they put their energy into their faith and as they find more meaning and the God's call in their life, it really does kind of put some of these other things together. Hey, you know, Jesus said, seek first the kingdom of God, and then all these other things will be added. And I think that does work for it in terms of marriage. One of the things, and you and I have talked about this on your program, but in terms of marriage, you know, what we're always saying is we have to rekindle romance. You know, a lot of times these couples, what, what happens is they, they've been so busy trying to get their kids to, you know, get through the teen years that they sort of bury things, they put it under the mat. The graying of divorce is real because the divorce rate is, you know, over 50 is the demographic is going crazy. And some are dealing with kids who are, you know, struggling with, you know, there's a strange, but I just heard 25%. I need to check this, but I just heard 25% of adult kids are estranged with at least one parent or another. And I'm like, oh my gosh, that's horrible. But that, that means it puts stress on the marriage. You and Gordy, you've always talked about this. I doubt if you guys have the perfect marriage, but you really like this guy. And then I was on a program with yours with him and I went, wow, I like this guy. Not that I'm, I'm not jealous, but I love, I mean, what a, what a wonderful man. But what did you do to enhance your marriage in the empty nest? We definitely read what to do. We remembered the advice. We, we hit a really big valley early on in our marriage when our kids were really young. And so we were in great counseling for about a year. And you know, what was so helpful for us is we went back to, okay, we don't want to go back to that valley year and we don't want to wonder how the other person is doing. And so we, there's a lot of intentionality and we do, he does a phone call every night, still to this day. That was something that we learned in counseling. He kind of, it's kind of the pulse of the day, like calls on his way home. He's got about a 25 minute drive and he's like, how's the day? How's it been? You know, let's talk it. And it's, it's a nice thing. So that for us, that works because he has the drive home. We have a date night and we had a really good one. This, just this past Friday, we, I had read a book and it was kind of a theme in it that was fun, but we, we came up with some of our top five moments from, from literally when we started dating and we had to write them down and we took them to dinner and we had gotten in a little bit of a rut. Like it's so easy to watch your favorite show or watch your dinner, have dinner in front of the TV, but our check-in and our little first 30, when he gets home, we try to just have the first 30 minutes to just what's going on. And it's okay to talk about the kids. It's okay to talk about work, but to just, to just sit and listen to each other and be together. And it's, you have to be intentional. I actually wrote that down. I'm going to try this, this with Kathy, cause I think that's really a good idea to remember those, you know, those top moments. And it was so fun. Oh my gosh. We, we, yeah, we coincided on some and then he thought it one. And I was like, I don't remember that at all. And he, you know, had one and he was like, are you sure that was me? We kind of laughed about that, but it was, it was fun to think back to young dating. It was exciting. Yeah. That's neat. And to kind of see milestones in your relationship and remember them, we've done that and it's been really cool. Well, we'll, we'll have to, we'll, we'll try that. Sometimes ours doesn't work as well when we come home. Cause Kathy, three days a week watches our two grandkids. We have four, but two of the grandkids, I come home and typically they're still there. And it's just like what it was when they were, you know, when we had our own kids, cause Kathy just kind of goes here, can you take them? I need to, I need a break. And I of course love that because that's what it's all about. I just, the other day I was at my daughter's house, my other daughter, who we don't always watch their kids, but they have two kids. They live in Los Angeles and we live in Orange County, so it's about an hour and 20 minute walk ride. And I came walking into their house and I said, Huxley, Bodie. And my daughter said, dad, I'm here too, you know. Oh, that's right. It's terrible to do that. You know, I had a friend that said when your grandchild is born, and we have two new ones now to make sure, especially with your daughter in law. So, so people all over, make sure if your daughter in law is holding the baby to make sure you say her name first and then go to the baby. And that's it. That's so hard to do. But you know, I'm trying, I'm really trying to work on that. Well, great, great input. Listen, we're going to take a quick break. We're talking with Charlotte Guest. She's our guest today. No pun intended on that. And she has a great podcast and it's called Empty Nest Guests. And I challenge you to go to it. All of the information about her mission and her ministry and herself, it's on our show notes. And so you can always take a look at that. And I really suggest that you get involved. When we come back, we're going to talk about friendship. So key, don't go away, friendship. And we're also going to talk about how do you develop a mission in life, your mission in life, both in the empty nest, but even from before, and we'll even tell you a way at the end, how you can get a free document on her website. That is awesome. I just looked through it. So we'll be right back. More to come on Homework. Welcome back. I'm Jim Burns. Great conversation today with Charlotte Guest. We're talking about empty nest success. And who doesn't want success in the empty nest? I've often said that games are won in the second half, not in the first half. But for those of you who aren't in the empty nest yet, the first half is important because you've got to build that foundation. And I'm imagining you're getting a lot out of this as I am. I'm actually taking notes on her right now. Charlotte, I read something that you had written, and I know you have a book coming out where you talk more about this, but about friendships. And I thought it was interesting because I really related that you lost some friendships when you went into the empty nest because all of a sudden now kids aren't, you know, the friends who are at the games or the friends who, you know, were at the events or around the school activities, you know, they kind of split apart. We had some of that. Some of it, we kind of stayed with it. But we lost some of that. But I'm also told over and over again by people, you know, I wrote a book called Finding Joy in the Empty Nest. And the more I would talk to people, they would say, we found our best friends after 50. We never dreamed that was going to happen. So talk to us about friendship in the empty nest. You know, friendship is something that I've been studying a little bit because I felt like it was important to do a dive in and see like, okay, we have our, we have some friends who I, they just gave our daughter a little sip and see a little, little party to see the grandchild. And they were the same friends that changed my daughter's diapers. So it was just a surreal, beautiful thing. So you have those, I would call those your gold friendships. They've, they are solid. They hold your jewels. They are, they're with you. And then you have some that were transactional friends and, and hey, can you, can you drive the kids to soccer? And sure, I'll do that. And there wasn't a lot of reciprocity as far as sharing the hardships of raising a family. You just needed a ride to soccer or you needed, you needed somebody to head to choir with, or you, you did this and it was still fun to see those. And like, we even loved some, oh my gosh, when baseball finished up for our son, we didn't see as many of those people. But I look back and I think what we had was so fun and it was so game related. And there wasn't a whole lot of deep, there was with some. And, and you know, I don't want to take anything away, especially if baseball friends ever listened to this, those were some dear, dear times, but there was a lot of situational and a lot of transactional. And, and then as I, you know, you, you hope if you're a Christian, that you're, you're maturing in your walk and you're maturing in your faith every day. So you can grow up a lot. I sure did listeners. I don't know if you did, but from age 30 to 50, I'm sure the Lord is like, who Charlotte, I needed to really, really raise you up as a mom. There are people that don't align with the purpose that God has for you now. And they might be believers, they might be doing something, but I've seen kind of this maturation and Gordy and I really started praying Lord, who here we are, who do you want us to be friends with? Or is it new people? Are there, do we need to be open to that? How do we deepen those that we really want to see? And so I think just involving the Lord in that. And one thing I learned was I thought this was the coolest thing. Well, the Jesus model is so awesome. I mean, you can't barely do life with more than 12 people and you're going to have four. And then those four, they're probably going to let you down just like his best friends did and the disciples. But if you look at a ruler and you look at it horizontally and you look at that 12, it's hard to do all that super deep. But if you take that and you flip that and you look at that ruler vertically, those top four are really key because you're going to enter into some hardships with your parents. You're going to have kids that aren't going to do everything right all the time. You're going to have a job that maybe changes. We had a friend who absolutely out of nowhere retirement happened. He wasn't planning on it. And so you can't do things at the surface level with 12 anymore while you're juggling these other things. And so I just think just be open. And then it's been so fun for us. We've had a couple of sets of friends that we never even knew until we were in this time. And it felt right because we were intentionally praying like, Lord, who do you want us to be friends with? Because we want to learn from others. We want to, how are you doing this with your kids? And to be intentional, but to also maybe lower expectations, especially when some of your best friends are going through hardships. If you have friends that are taking care of aging parents and they can't see straight because of all the grandkids, you just got to be there for them. But maybe you got to lower expectations and then offer more what you can when you can. Yeah. No, I love, I love here saying that we have some friends. There's four couples and we actually have been to Hawaii together. We've done some things together. So we're really close and we've known each other since before we had kids, you know, kind of a thing. But what's fascinating about it is we don't see each other on a day to day basis. And in fact, one of them texted me this week and said, Hey, can you want to do dinner on Saturday? Just spontaneous. This was Friday night and said, sorry, Kathy and I are speaking. We're away. We're out of the area. But some, those, those are such special times. And yet we're not trying to meet with them every week for accountability and prayer. We meet with them on a somewhat regular basis. And we always celebrate never on the day, but we'll celebrate around Valentine's Day or we're always around Christmas and things like that. You know, this group gets together and we call those our replenishing relationships. I think everybody, whether it be in the emptiness or not, we need replenishing relationships and kind of fly away, flee, flee from toxic relationships. Yes. And I call them VDPs. I talk about this on this podcast all the time, very draining people or very inspiring people. And I think in the empty nest, you have a chance to kind of say, wait, we're going to reinvent how we do friendships. And I love what you and Gordie are doing. And I love how you, how you just explained that. So, you know, it's a great, a great model for us. Spouse friendships. You know, Kathy and I probably in the empty nest to become better friends. I didn't see that coming, but it was because we played together. We have more fun. I agree. Another couple words that come to mind are the friends you have right now, listeners, I would ask you to ask yourself, are they refreshing? Are they safe? And are they people that you can relax with? So good. And, you know, we spent a lot of our times, we had to do some corporate dinners and some things, you know, many years ago that were like, okay, you got to get ready. You got to, we got to make sure we're doing all this right. And it's so refreshing now to be like, we were so tired last night and we had dinner set up with some of our very best friends. And I said, you know what, I can go to their house and be tired and just be, and just be authentic. And if they're relaxing, they're refreshing, you come away, like you said, replenished. If you don't have that, you know, the Lord, great things come from pruning. And when, when the Lord prunes things, it allows the roots to grow deeper and you can absorb a whole lot better things. If you just prune out some things that, you know, you don't need. Oh, I love that. Great things come from pruning. Man, I've taken notes on you today, Charlotte. I've taken many notes off you. So, so good. I said at the beginning, I was smiling because you were coming on to the, to the podcast. Well, I'm smiling because I'm thinking of the, you know, people who are listening right now and are getting so much from it. You know, on your website, we don't have much time left, but on your website, charlotteguest.com, I was just on it. I was on it the other day. And you offer a free, what you called a mission quest worksheet and it's helping people find meaning, mission, and even ministry in the empty nest. It really is good. And it's an important process. And I know it's even a free download, but tell us what that's all about. Well, I was in my, I think I was in my early thirties and juggling three kids, not very well, a job, tired. And I had this precious mentor that I mentioned several times, Shirley Stairs, and she poured into all of us and she taught that class. And she, her thing was so many of you are working for companies and you're helping them develop their mission statements. And we see all this and a big buzzword many years ago was, you know, what's your vision, what's your mission. And that's still out there. But she said, girls, even those of you that are staying home, raising these young children, you need to have a personal mission statement that will go with you throughout your life. And I loved this class that I took from her. And when she was headed to heaven a few years ago, she said, Charlotte, I want you to repurpose this and I want you to get this out there. And so listeners, what I'm able to offer is what I learned from Shirley. And it's a, it's a small little few worksheets basically to remind you that your life is so full of meaning. And so we, there's a little bit of time in the worksheets of just reminding you who you are in Christ. And then you dive into, well, what, what is my mission? What are my three words? And so this, this will help you find out what your three words are. My words are abide, enlighten, and brighten. So my mission statement is to abide in Christ, to enlighten in love others, and then to brighten. And I have a nice little poem that, that I can't think of it right now, and that's okay because it's on my worksheets, but to abide in him, brighten where dim, enlighten in love, family, others, and friends. There it is. So I remembered it. So you might come up with three words that are vastly different from any, any of your friends, but whether you're at work or at home or in your marriage or in friendships, knowing those words and who you are, it kind of puts a little spring in your step, I think. And so I've had that same mission statement for a long time. And then you take that and then in the worksheets, you dive in and you think, okay, well, I'm wired this way. So how could I serve in that? I think empty nesters, I think we all ought to be out serving somebody else at least once a week. Great. Yeah, that's so good. Wow. That's really good. And you know, as you abide, you've been enlightening and brightening us. Thank you so much for being on the podcast. Thank you for all that you do, who you are as a person. Talk about an inspiration. And I'm grateful you were on the program today so much. Jim, thank you. It's an honor. And I love Homeward. I love steering my listeners on Emptiness Guest to Homeward. I love your books. I love everything that you all are doing. And you guys are a bright light in the world. So thank you for allowing me to share a little light today. Well, thank you so much. And again, all of the information is on our show notes. Charlotteguest.com can also give you all the information. What a great, great conversation today. Interesting that Charlotte talked about mentoring and a mentor in her life. And I find that most people who thrive in life, they can go back to mentors and say, you know, this mentor taught me this, this mentor taught me that. I noticed this last weekend, Kathy and I were doing a marriage conference together and we kept talking about our mentors. And I think we did it in every session. And it really wasn't planned, but because we weren't raised with, you know, great mentors in our family, both of our parents weren't in the church and we became Christians when we're in teenage years. That's why we are so excited about, you know, youth ministry and teenagers making, you know, important commitments. And we'll always be like that. But it was because of our personal experience. But again, we had mentors and we went after mentors in every aspect of life. And so some of you who are just now entering the empty nest, hey, you go find some mentors. And you know what? I hope that at Homeward, we can be somewhat of a mentor to you. And definitely you can go to empty nest guest and get some mentoring from Charlotte who wouldn't want some mentoring from her. And that's the beauty of podcast and media today. Hey, before you go, I just want to give you a couple of quick thoughts. I was going to tell you a story. It's real quick story. So when Kathy and I dropped Heidi off, I talked about it at the beginning. We were making target runs and all this and then all of a sudden we had entered the empty nest as we're driving back, right? We didn't talk for about 45 minutes, not because we were mad at each other. We just were in thought land. And I looked over at Kathy all of a sudden and she had a tear going down her cheek. And I said, you're right, babe. And she said, well, to be honest, no, but we don't really need to talk about it right now. I just I gosh, it's a new phase for me. And then a little later, I said, Hey, do you want to stop in Santa Barbara? We love Santa Barbara, California. And I said, you want to stop and get a bite to eat? We were driving from central California on the coast to our home in Dana Point, which is in Orange County. And she said, No, let's just go on home. I went, but that's unusual. Not that she's I'm the eater. She's not but she likes Santa Barbara. So we get home and we just sat at the kitchen table and we just kind of went, Whoa, what are we going to do now with the rest of our life, so to speak, and what we realized, we started adding up things and we became empty nesters later in life compared to others. And actually, the boomerang kept coming back for us because our kids were coming back, they did eight times, but who's counting. But fascinating enough, what we realized was we needed to reinvent our life and kind of recalibrate it. And so we had to do some work at that. And, and I wrote this book called finding joy in the empty nest. And actually, there's a number of principles, but I want to give you three just in closing principle number one, when your child leaves home, and their life fills up with fresh experiences, follow their lead, right? Your kids are leaving. And that should be a joyous time, not just such a sad time, but it's a sad joyous time, if you do it right. But since they have new things going on in their life, then follow their lead. It's exactly what Charlotte talked about today, in terms of, you know, kind of reinventing what are you going to do with this time that you have, and you don't want to waste it, you don't want to scroll, scroll, scroll on social media, or, you know, just bury yourself in work, what you want to do is now you have the time to get in shape, you have the time to maybe take a more trips, you definitely have the time to do date nights with your spouse, if you're married, if you're single, you have time to work on your friendships, maybe join a Bible study, those kinds of things. Secondly, is reinvent the relationship with your adult children. So you've got to put time and energy into this, you're going to go into the empty nest, you just became a parent of an adult child. And, you know, your adult children don't know how to be adults. And frankly, most of us didn't know how to parent adult children. So you've got to put some time and energy into that lean into it, change the relationship, reinvent it, you were you were parenting a child, and now you're a parent of an adult. So you treat them differently. And you can sure learn more about that in lots of different ways. And then thirdly, if you're married, then you've got to rekindle the romance in your marriage. And this is the time that if you say, Well, you know, we've lost that romance, well, then fine, find it in terms of being intentional about it. What I have found is that friendship, you know, has nothing on fireworks when it comes to romance. And so as you develop your friendship, guess what comes back the romance, it's there, it may be hidden, and, and some of the joy and spontaneity of your relationship, but it doesn't have to be hidden. Now it can come up to the surface and you really can have a second half marriage. That's, you know, incredibly important. So anyway, those are just some thoughts today. Thanks so much for listening. I hope that you'll subscribe to the new podcast. It's a new podcast. And leave a comment. Hey, also, if you'd like you can call Homeward with Jim Burns voice line, you'll actually hear my voice, but I won't be listening to it. You can leave a message, you can leave a comment. We love comments, good or bad. Hopefully, you'll be nice. And also, you can leave a question. If you leave the question, make sure it's short and concise. We're just about ready to do a program just with Q&A. And I'll do the best I can to answer your questions. But keep it concise. We can't put the whole novel on the on the program, of course. So anyway, that's the voice line. And again, that phone number is 949-485-3905. And if you have any questions on senior show notes as well. Again, thanks for listening. And thanks for being a part of the Homeward broadcast. And I just want to give a shout out to Evelyn and Ricky Chacon. They said that they've listened to every podcast so far. They're in Guatemala City. And I'm looking forward to actually being with them in June speaking at their amazing church called Be the Real. We'll talk to you soon. God bless Homeward with Jim Burns. Welcome to Homeward, I'm Jim Burns. You know, when my kids became teenagers, I thought it was going to be easy. I was a youth pastor all of my adult life. I still consider myself a youth worker. I wrote my PhD dissertation in adolescence. So people were asking me to speak to kids. People are asking me to speak to their parents about teens. And my kids become teens and Kathy and I were absolutely humbled. I mean, when I'm saying humbled, we were humbled. We actually thought we were kind of cool parents and our kids didn't think we were cool parents. And to be honest, it was kind of shocking because I honestly thought this was going to be a breeze. Now, I love the teen years and I had a good experience with the teen years, but I had to relearn a language to communicate with my kids because it was a different thing. I mean, they had been children and you know, in the children years, they have a role. They know that they're children and in the adult years, they sort of have a role and they know what they're doing. But in the teen years, it's kind of a phase and they're just passing through. And so we're gonna help you a lot today. And I'm so, so honored to have Paige Clingampil with me today. Embrace, her podcast is called Embracing Your Season, Parenting the Littles and Understanding Teens. And you know what? It's my favorite parenting podcast on the planet. And I never said that before because you've never heard me say that, but I honestly mean it. I love, love Paige. I love what she does. She has great background. She's a teen therapist, as well as other things. We'll talk about that in a moment. But also her likeability factor is just off the charts. Paige is married. She has four kids, three of them are teens. So she's living the dream and then one is a preteen. So that's also the dream. She's living the dream. She's married to a wonderful husband. She is on staff at Pine Hills Church in Fort Wayne, Indiana. And her podcast is the Sister Podcast to this podcast. So if I said I like her parenting podcast the most, that means I'm second or maybe third or fourth, but I sure love her stuff. Today we're talking about healthy communication with your teen and preteen. Paige, it's great to see you. I am so excited to be here. Thanks for having me, Jim. I actually listen to you every week. I mean, you know this because I kind of respond to you, but I listen to you every week or sometimes I watch you on the Homeward YouTube channel. And I love your program. Oh, thank you so much. I have so much fun doing it. Truly. Like I learn, I grow, I gain information because the people I talk to, it's like teach me as well. You know, so we're always growing. Well, that's the neat thing where you're going to teach us today because really I don't know anybody who's ever said in the world who said, you know, parenting a teen or communicating with a teen is like super simple. It's not all super dramatic. I mean, sometimes like I, you know, I mean, we had our degree of teen communication. So there's great times as well. But I'm so happy that we can talk about it. Now you have been this amazing teen therapist for a number of years now. You've heard everything, but did you have the surprise like I had when my kids became teens? Yeah, it's so funny because you talk about how teenage adolescents could be simple. Well, it did come to me very easily to get kids to communicate. So I felt like I had this thing down that when my kids become teenagers, they're going to talk to me about everything. We're going to have fun together. They're never going to push back on limits and boundaries. And then all of a sudden I have teenagers and I was like, who is this child I am living with? This is not who this person was even just two years ago. So it was quite shocking. But what I love is that we're navigating it together. It's that whole mentality of like, I am growing as a parent while I am parenting. And so it's just been a fun season. So far, it's my favorite. I mean, I haven't gotten to the adult children season, but I know there is a book out there about living life with your children that I know is really solid. So I'll pick that up when they get that age. But right now this is fun. I mean, it's not always easy, but it's definitely fun. Yeah. And you're right. I mean, you can be frustrated with a teen 24, 7, 365. And again, part of that is because they're pushing the limits. That's what they're supposed to do. It's in their job description. They're sometimes going through experimental behavior and they really are moving from dependence on their parents to independence. And yet they're not totally independent yet. The adult children, so like my kids, I mean, I'm now a mentor to them, but I'm not parenting them day to day because they're adult kids, right? It's funny. I'm not sure they would want me to call them kids, but that's what they are. One teenager said to me, or not a teenager, I think she was about 16. And she said, you know, when I was seven, my parents said, go to your room. And then when I am now a teenager, they go, come out of your room. And she goes, it's really confusing, you know, with my parents because of that. What advice would you give to a parent who is really going through that difficult time where it shocked them? Maybe it did a little bit like you. I mean, you're able to communicate so well with kids, but at the same time with our kids, you know, it can be shocking. But the ones who are like, I had no idea and it's not going well, what advice would you give to them to, you know, connect and communicate on a different level? Yeah, I think it's twofold. First, let's just encourage you that this is just the season they're in. So it's not completely abnormal. I think for parents, we become fearful, don't we? When we, especially when it's a counter behavior, I look at my son, he was such a talker, even just a year ago. And now he's spending more time like online with his friends. So that's his social community, but it's in his bedroom. So I'm not hearing the same stories I used to hear. And even though I have this background, I started thinking, is this a problem? No, I reminded myself, I compared notes with other parents in the same season. That's helpful. But so those out there, just know this is part of normal development. Of course, you know your kid best. So if it is becoming abnormal, definitely reach out to people that are in the season or experts so they can speak into that. But secondly, I would only say that when they finally do talk. So again, let's talk about my son. When he does talk to me, it's usually about Minecraft or this new game. I don't even know the name. I'll be honest, I'm not the best listener with this. But it's usually in the car ride, we're on our way home or to some sporting event. And he's finally telling me every detail. Jim, I literally do not care about Minecraft. Like, no part of me is interested in this. However, I know that this is building equity with my kiddo. And so I'm asking questions. So now I know more about this creative mode than the whatever mode, right? Because this teaches my kid that I'm interested in what he's interested in. That's going to build a foundation later on when he's ready to tell me the harder things, maybe the more difficult, uncomfortable things that I'm there and I'm going to be willing to listen. Yeah. Yeah. So you're sacrificing your Minecraft. Yeah, my brain cells. No, we have to do that. I agree. And there are times when I would go out with I started and I'm going to talk about this at the very end. But there are times when I would go out on a like what we call the date with my kids, I had on girls. And, and honestly, we're talking about snowboarding or something that was I had an agenda, I wanted to talk about their homework, I want to talk about the relationship with boys, their relationship with God. And I had to listen the whole time to that. But you're I love that you use the word equity. Because sometimes we just simply have to do life with them. So in order to be that safe person when they're ready to talk. Yes. Yeah, it's real. It's so key. I heard you say something really interesting. Some time ago, you said, and I don't know that I did this very well with my kids when they were teens. But you said, ask your kids if you're if you're, you know, how's the best way to talk to you about when you're, you know, freaking out about homework, or when your attitude stinks, or, you know, when things just aren't going well, or, you know, whatever, you ask them, how do you want me to, to be engaged with you? That's incredible communication. Does it work? Yes, actually, yes. So I had to learn this the hard way. So of course, I'm going to parent from what I think is best for me and receiving information and how I want to be talked to. That's not my kids. Like you said, I have four kids, they each have different personalities. And so what I have found is when they're no longer heightened, so it's not the same situation, they're not panicking, freaking out, we go back and say, Hey, I know next time, I could probably do this better. Do you want me to ask you questions? Do you want me to encourage you? How do you want me to talk to you? So it's twofold, I get to show them that I'm interested in walking alongside them in a healthy way. But then I'm also addressing the needs that they want addressed, right? So now they're, they're part of the solution. Instead of us as parents, just being the dictator over communication, we're inviting our kids to have that communication with us, what works best for us. So now they're actually expressing needs. That's a life lesson. No, that's really good to connect with other people as well. What I hear you saying is don't do it in the heat of the battle. Yep, kind of pause. And, you know, so give us an illustration. So I mean, I think parents are going, wow, that's really good. I don't even know how to do that. So give us a, you know, a real live page, cling and pill illustration on, you know, how you did that and how you navigated that. Yeah, so this is actually this week, again, I'll talk about my son. So he did not make good choices in school this week. So he didn't turn in a few assignments. And so we took away his privileges for his phone. That's just a result. We talked about it prior to, well, that set him off. He was very frustrated. He felt like it was not appropriate. And so he pushed back a little bit. And so I initially started engaging with him, like arguing almost with him. But then I shut that down. You can't engage when your child is in that the level. So all I said was, we'll just talk about this later. So he went to his room, slammed the door, did the whole thing. Later, I came back and I said, you know, what could I have said that helped you understand that not only was this a consequence, but it was actually a helpful thing for you so that you can do your job, which I believe school is their main employment, quote unquote job right now. And he even said, Mom, I think it would have been better if when I got home, instead of talking about it right then that we would have waited. I was like, okay, I can do that. I can wait then when would have been a good time to talk about it. Well, how about we talk about it at dinner instead when we're just kind of, I have three hours past school time. I can just sit and chill for a few minutes. And then we talk about it. I think I would have responded better. And then I even asked, I was like, so how could I have brought it up to you? He goes, well, instead of telling me right away, you're going to take away my device instead. Ask me like what happened at school? You know, like why did you not turn in the assignments? I was like, okay, you're right. I could do that next time. So see how I was even just prompting him and then he was able to speak into that. And that creates a unity, a team. Yeah. I mean, and your son is amazing by the way. Honestly, he led you through that. He did. He's had some practice, you know, nothing like he has good parents. Well, no, that's it. I was just going to say nothing like having, you know, a mom who's a teen therapist. You know, I think one of my kids would have like put their, you can see this on the home or YouTube channel. You can't see it when you're just on the podcast, but you know, I'm putting my hands in my ears, going, no, I don't want to never tell me, talk to me about this, you know, whatever. And sometimes, sometimes that does happen. Sometimes, you know, like your communication on that one was like a plus on his part and on your part. Well, and you know, I think the reason why is because we've continued to practice this. So if it was one thing, if I said, okay, tell me how to talk to you next time. And then I didn't do that. That would have lost trust completely. But he knew that he had the ability to speak into this and I was going to listen and respect that. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's, that's really good. You know, something I probably say this on every podcast. So our producer, Mike Segovia is probably getting sick of hearing it, but you know, communication is a learned trait. And it's a learned trait with our kids. Our kids don't know how to communicate. We don't know how to communicate. We don't know how to communicate with our, with our teens. So it's a learned trait. That's good news. We don't have to communicate like our parents did necessarily. We don't have to communicate how our kids are communicating to us. So it's kind of this learning experience together. And it works if you practice and practice and practice. Yeah. And then, you know, I mean, I see that. I mean, what you just said is actually perfect for marriage too. A lot of times when the teen years I found for Kathy and me, we loved the teen years because we both had youth ministry background. It was great. But we found it very difficult on our marriage because they were, they were pushing buttons and they were up later at night or they were gone and we're having a disagreement. She wants me to call, you know, at 9 50 because the limit is 10 when they could come in and I go, no, I'm going to wait till, till 10. And she's, oh, no, you need to know right now. I mean, we don't know where they are that we haven't heard, you know, whatever. And I'm not saying that is even bad with her, but it was our, we need to learn how to, how to have those kinds of conversations. Absolutely. And it actually, even in marriage, I mean, it's just a good thought. When I heard you say that, um, you know, before just, I went, wow, why not ask them? How would you like it? It's really, really, really good. I mean, man, amazing. Now I mentioned that teens are in transition and that's a big thing for me. And in a book I wrote called understanding your teen, I talk a lot about transition and identity. And so they're, you know, they're moving from childhood to adulthood, like I said, and one of the biggest parts of that phase is identity. So when you read teen books or understanding teen type books, you know, they always talk about identity. Eric Erickson, who was the, you know, guy who wrote so much about teens, he said, the primary task of the teen years is to construct an identity. And so I think for some parents, I'm like, wow, I mean, they're into rap today and now they don't like rap and they're into some other kind of music. Now that they use, now they're wearing all black and now they're wearing flowers. I'm on the Homer YouTube channel, wear my favorite Hawaiian shirt. But the point that I'm saying is, is that, you know, I think it's hard because how do we help them find this identity? That's one, and I would hope it's, it's as Christ followers, you and me, you know, that's rooted in Christ. But, you know, I mean, you're living with kids who are trying to figure this identity issue out. So they came to you, they're talking to you. And again, you're going to have certain kind of teens talking to you, but, you know, they're trying to find their identity. How do, how do we, as a parent, help them understand that? Yeah, I think one of the first things that we can do is just respect their unique identity, their opinions. I think it's so easy to dismiss kids as if because they don't have the same experience or longevity like parents and adults do that they don't know what they're talking about. When we do that, that actually shuts them down and it makes them first not want to communicate to us. But secondly, now we're not even going to get to see a side of their personality that could be developed if we showed them, wow, that's interesting, develop that more. Right? So this is a perfect example of this was yesterday. I was so impressed. I was like, dang y'all, I'm doing a really good job with this parenting thing. My daughter, I, oh gosh. Yeah. That's next podcast. Let's talk about how Paige failed in every single way. Yeah. Great. Okay. So yesterday, my daughter, she's a sophomore. She got in the car. We were going to orthodontic appointment and she goes, mom, did you know about this genocide in Rwanda? Did you know about the native Americans and how the people did this and this? And she starts going into this litany of history that she was so shocked to find out about. And I thought, wow, listen to her speak into this. She's passionate about this. She's all about social justice. And I had the opportunity to be like, well, you don't actually know what you're talking about. I could have shut this down. But instead I said, tell me more about that. Wow. Why do you think the government responded this way? Or tell me more about why that fires you up or what can you do to be the next generation to make sure that doesn't happen again? So now I actually, I valued and validated her opinions and made her feel like we were having a mutual conversation where her opinion mattered. And that creates a sense of autonomy, right? And that increases self-esteem because too often today's kids, they don't feel like they have a voice. And when they don't have a voice, they're definitely not going to come to us parents who shut them down. So that one little step of saying, what's your opinion on this? I love to start with what's in culture. So maybe it's a music or it's a video or it's a TikTok. Just even asking their opinion of why do you think they're doing this? Or what does this song mean? Or why do you think culture really loves this character or this person? Now you're inviting them to not only share their opinion, but you're getting a glimpse into what culture is all about. So they'll come back and talk about that stuff. How cool is that? No, that's really good. I was speaking this last weekend in Wisconsin and I was doing one of Homeward's seminars on building morals and values. And I said, the way you learn culture is to ask your kids what's the latest greatest music? What's what are you watching on TikTok? But actually you're learning about them, but also you can even make it non-personal. They'll be more open sometimes about it. What's going on at the school? What do they think about? And fill in the blank. And a guy came up to me afterwards and he said, that's good. I had an experience like that and I asked my son about, want to talk about gender identity and the son. So well, here's what I'm learning. Here's what's going on at the school and all that. And then I told my son, he was a complete idiot and that he was wrong. And I pulled out my Bible and whatever. And I kind of went, wait, you flunked right there. I mean, he has every right to have a different opinion than his son, obviously, but you don't have this incredible conversation and then just go, you're wrong. And he actually called his son an idiot. And I'm like, I think actually you're the idiot on that one. And again, I might've agreed on many of the things that this man thought about. He just handled it so wrong. Through this whole conversation, I hear us thinking about as communicating with our teens, is listening is the language of love. And you showed love by listening to your daughter with stuff that you may like or may not like. I mean, it's your Minecraft illustration. You may like or not like, but when you listen, you're saying, I love you. And that's a really good thing. I wanted to ask you another question. This just kind of comes from parent after parent and me doing this too, but how important is it for a parent to apologize to their child as a communication? Like, you know what? I remember a time with Christie, I said, you know, Christie, that was all about me and that was not about you. I kind of yelled at her and I'm not a yeller. My dad was a yeller. I was much more the stuffer. But in this case, I kind of went, and rightly she had kind of talked back to me or whatever it was, but it just triggered me. And I said, I am, I am so sorry. That's, and she goes, Oh daddy, I forgive you. And it was kind of this weird opposite that my kid is saying that to me. Was that a good thing or did I look weak? Oh gosh. I love when parents and adults apologize to their kids because we are so fallible. I mean, I was joking about how awesome a parent I am. I fail every single day, but here's what I do differently than my own family of origin does is that I admit that I made a mistake, that I did not talk kindly, that I did not affirm them, whatever my mistake was, I own that. And so not only does that model for our kids how to have that conflict resolution, but again, it's back to that value. Your feelings, your relationship means so much to me that I want you to know that it was violated and you should never be treated that way. And I'm so sorry. So please forgive me for, and then I go into that. And there's something so powerful about that because it's, it's beyond just transactionary, right? Like it doesn't just fix the relationship. Instead it's building back that trust. It's building that equity, that sense of intimacy in the relationship with my kids. And it's so powerful because how often do we feel like we're always in the right? And if we admit mistakes, we're weak. I'm sorry. That is an ignorant attitude that distorts relationships. And yeah, the seeds planted. Well, you know, and I love that you use the word transaction and we do that with, with certain, you know, I go to the store and I am having a transactional conversation or whatever it might be Starbucks. I'm making an order, whatever. But with our kids, it's not transactional. It really is more, it's relational and, and that takes more work, but it's still, you know, it's just beautiful. Listen, we're going to take a quick break. We'll be right back. We're talking with Paige Klingonpill, her podcast. I mentioned it. It's my favorite parenting podcast. It's called Embracing Your Season, Parenting the Littles and Understanding Teens. And if you haven't listened to it, or if you have not watched it on the Homeward YouTube channel, then you're missing out. So I'm challenging you to, you know, take a look at this. And of course you can find much more with Paige and her ministry at pageklingonpill.com. Don't worry if you can't spell that last name that she inherited when she married her husband. If you can't spell it, all the information is on our show notes on the podcast page. And I actually think I just used the word podcast page. And then I now I'm using her name, Paige. When we come back, I want you to talk about your page is spelled differently by the way, P-A-I-G-E. But anyway, I want you to, I want to talk about what do we do with troubled teens? I mean, you're a therapist. So parents, you know, have teens who truly are troubled. And I'm talking about all kinds of issues from anything from anxiety and depression, which is way up, you know, sexuality, gender issues, just tons and tons of things. And we're going to, I want to talk about that. And I want to ask you some questions. I'm going to have you play therapist for us and we'll be right back. Don't go away. And there's a little ad about Homeward. Hey, I'm Kelly Fellows. Did you know that Homeward also has resources for parents and married couples? You can find all those resources at our website, homeward.com. Also check out our YouTube channel where we create a one minute video vitamins to encourage parents and to resource couples. Check those all out at YouTube forward slash Homeward and also our website, homeward.com. Now let's get back to our podcast. Welcome back. Paige Klingon-Pill is with us today and we're talking about healthy communication with your teens and pre-teens. Paige, right before the break, I mentioned the troubled teens and, you know, I mean, and I just keep adding these things, bullying, cyber bullying, self injury. So many parents don't understand that or, you know, their kids are cutting themselves, self injury, suicidal kids, anxiety, depression, all the rest. What do you say to a parent who's really going through this struggle? I mean, now we're not talking about normal adolescent issues. We're talking about, well, these may even be normal anymore, but really tough stuff. What do you say to that person when they come and say, help? Yeah, well, hopefully they're asking for help. I think that's one of the things that we do as parents is we want to keep it inside the home that we don't, we feel shame when our kids struggle, especially when there's outward manifestation of certain disorders like depression, anxiety, and all of those things. I think that's the number one thing. Just don't isolate. Don't isolate yourself. Like there are people like me and resources like Homeward that can truly walk alongside you. So don't do this alone. I think that would be the number one thing. You know, I think a lot of times, I say that all the time because I think a lot of times when you're teen, you're embarrassed that your teen is doing this. And so you don't want to, and you hope it goes away. You're kind of in denial. Absolutely. And yet really this is the time to reach out and grab a coffee with somebody who had the same thing. I was talking with a man and woman, Kathy and I went out to dinner last night, was beautiful people who we know and their son had really gone through teenage years tough. And I said, what did you do? And they said, well, we actually knew somebody else whose son had gone through it. And so we got together with them and we kind of cried and laughed together. And we actually ended up laughing. Even it was in the midst of the trauma, but now they had some people to kind of walk through this, but also counseling. I mean, the Bible is so clear when, if there's no counsel, the people fall in the multitude of counsel, there is safety. And so we want to make sure, I want to make sure that our listeners, our podcast watchers of YouTube, that they actually do understand that that really is a key thing. So if somebody comes in and they say to you, my child is deeply depressed. What are you going to do? How are you going to communicate with that parent? Yeah, gosh. And unfortunately, that is a common thing right now that we are seeing that in more and more. I think the first thing is, again, that there's hope that they will not always be in this season of life, that it does get better. So I come around the parents, but I also come around the child. I think equipping the parents is the number one thing that we can do, especially as therapists. We can help the child, we can give them resources and tools, but we're not in the home. We're not with them all the time. And so just walking the parent through all the different resources they can have. Sometimes depression is truly a biochemical issue. So giving them a referral to doctor, getting them connected to a therapist so that we can help both the parent change their parenting style and the child can work on some of the thinking errors that is usually rooted with some depression features. But again, it's about a holistic approach. I mean, we're talking down to what is their sleep like? What is their diet like? Many parents don't think about that holistically. That's the cool thing about having someone else in this field speak into it. Asking those questions. I mean, I tell people all the time to go to people like you, because you do this all the time. And so you know the patterns, you know the issues, but at least a parent should get an assessment. And assessment doesn't mean you're not going to, parents will immediately go, my child is troubled and this and that. Where can I send them? Oh yeah, to fix up. Yeah. And I say, no, first get an assessment, because this may not be as bad as you think. And honestly, it could be a physiological issue with many of these issues. It could be a psychological issue. It could be all kinds of stuff going on. Maybe they need to go see a psychiatrist because of some kind of, you know, something going on with their brain issues or whatever. And so, you know, get an assessment. And I think that's key. Now you wrote a blog for Homeward. You've written a couple of blogs for Homeward. They're wonderful, by the way. And I know you have blogs on pageklingonpilled.com. But you wrote a blog on healthy sexuality. And of course, that is something that more, I just spoke on it two nights ago at a school, a Christian school. And you know, the people are like, oh my gosh, we didn't see this coming with our, and these were more preteens. But lots of questions, lots of things on, you know, anything from, you know, how do I talk to my kids about this to whatever. But what do you say to a parent whose kid is, you know, at that age and they maybe didn't ever have their parents talk to them about it. So they don't have any idea what to do. And they come to you for advice. What do you say? Oh, yeah. Well, first, I encourage them to continue to find resources, right? Like, you, we're, I'm, gosh, it's so funny how easily I can talk to other people's kids about this stuff. Absolutely. I can talk to any person's child about intimacy and sexual relationships, but my own kids, it's almost like I start stuttering and I'm just like, I start sweating. It is, it's a lot to put on yourself, this pressure, right? But there's so many resources out there that I know that can give you the language to speak into that. But I think my big encouragement is you have to have those conversations because they are happening without you if you are not answering these questions. Kids are curious. Our bodies are designed as sexual beings. So they're hearing things on the school bus. They're reading things on Google. We know the average age to see pornography is eight years old now. So they're already exposed to some of this stuff, even if we're putting filters on our phones, right? And we're avoiding television. It is seeping in because that's the fallen world that we live in. So it is so important that parents have the conversation even before they age. They think it's appropriate using word appropriate language. I know, Jim, you've written many books about how to talk to your kids about their sexual identity and how to speak to them about those things. But friends, we have to be having these conversations because the world is having them for us. Right. No, exactly. I mean, the number one place they're going to is the internet. I don't trust. I mean, I love the internet. I use it every day, but I don't trust everything that's on the internet. And that's where kids are looking for it. And I say to parents, and I'd love that you said this about you, you know, sweat, you glow, you don't sweat. Thank you. I will use that. And, and, you know, I've never heard you stutter. I go like she's the most articulate person I know. But I get it because it's awkward. And I say to parents, expect it to be awkward. You know, it's not it's I mean, it's messy. I mean, things are messy. But still, they need to be the ones who have those kind of conversations and not luxury preachy, but also back to the dialogue. I always say they need I would rather have kids. I mean, parents talk to their kids with 101 minute conversations than one 100 minute conversation. And, and I think that brings safety to the kids and whatnot. So I love that. Oh, my gosh, our time is out. I have loved having conversation with you. I need to bring you back on maybe we could do another podcast here soon. But so so good. Thank you for all you do. Thank you for your podcast. And again, I want to say to any of our friends go to that podcast if you've not done it. I'm meeting people who are like totally, you know, banning, if that's the right word, fanning page in her podcast, and they it comes out on Tuesdays and man, they are on there looking at just as I am. So go to page clink and pill calm, you can go to homework.com. There's also a connection there you go to any podcast platform known to humankind, it feels like and you can see this and listen to it. You can also see it speaking of seeing it on the homework YouTube channel. And anyway, she's just she just does a great job with that. And page thanks again for hanging out with us. As we kind of try to figure out how to work with these, these crazy teenagers are actually crazy pre teenagers too, because that is the same thing going on. It is it is. And this was a pleasure, Jim. Thanks for having me. Yeah, great, great to be with you. Hey, before we go, I want to make a couple of points thinking about and I'm going to take this out of a book I wrote called understanding your teen. In fact, it's funny, you're not supposed to have favorite children. And I don't think I do. But I had times when they were favorites, maybe. But I, this is one of my favorite books I've ever written in my life. And I have nine points on better communication with your teens. And I'm only going to give you three just real quick. And their summary of what we've just had in our conversation with page. First of all, listen more, talk less. Okay, we parents, we think we have it all together. And we know more than they do. And, and we're probably right most of the time. But really, we mentioned it as we were talking, listening is the language of love. And I love this Donald Miller quote, nobody will listen to you unless they sense you like them. And way too many teens don't think you parents like them because you're always you have to you're dealing with discipline, you're dealing with them coloring outside the lines, but make sure that they know that you like them. And that's a biggie. Secondly, is make family meal times, conversation times, put the phones away, they are not allowed at the kitchen table, and just literally have those conversations. And sometimes they're going to be amazing, like what page was talking about, and other times they're going to be on something that you're not excited about. But nevertheless, as she said, using her term, you're building equity. So make those meal times good, by the way, do the same thing with bedtimes. There were times with my girls, that's I think, when I had some of my best conversations, they would be, you know, getting ready for bed, and I would kind of come in, sometimes I just plop myself down and go, What are you reading? Or what are you looking at? Or whatever. And all of a sudden, they tell me about their day. And there were many times they'd come home from school, and I'd go, How was your day? Fine. What's going on? Nothing. You know, and then at night, they just would kind of more open up. So make those times sacred. And by the way, don't have their don't let them have their cell phones at night. Plug it in someplace else. There's, if they use it for an alarm clock, there's this amazing thing, you can get it on Amazon for like $10. It's called an alarm clock. And it's not the phone. So then they don't have access to their phone. And then last one is have parent and I mentioned this about my life. And I'm just I love that we were able to do this have parenting date and hangout times on a regular basis. Now again, I'm like the hyper, you know, focus person on that. And I probably had I tried to have a date every week with my kids. So that's like three hours. We usually did it around food. That's why I have a rounder stomach than some people, because the food that they wanted was food that I also wanted, but it was like not great food. My wife would take them for salads, and I would take them for burgers. But you know what I found is those were the good times. So those are those are just three things you can do starting today. What I'm saying here is it takes intentionality, but it's so so worth it. Well, again, my thanks to Paige Klingon Pill. I love that person. She is amazing. And so don't forget to check out our website for good content. Don't forget to check out her website, page klingonpill.com for some wonderful, wonderful content. And thanks for listening. Thanks for watching. Until next time, we'll see you again. I've been in a long day. Isn't this tiring? Now you understand that when your kids are in school, you go, whoa, they're sitting there for a long time. Okay, we're making the transition. I actually, as you can see, I made a little bit of the transition already. Excuse me, I have to cough. So I never dreamed that I would be talking to people, parents about this subject. But what was interesting is when Kathy and I first got married, I was a youth pastor, and I would speak at places like at Forest Home and these other places, and they, for some reason, because I was married, would always say, would you speak to the kids about sex? And so I was like, oh man, you know, my parents never talked to me about sex. And so what happened was over time period, I realized I am spending a lot of time talking to students. There was a season in my life where I spoke to about a quarter of a million high school kids. Not just about this subject, but about other subjects. And then I realized it's really the parents that need it. You know, more than sometimes the kids. Here's why, watch this. How many of you received positive value-centered sex education when you were growing up from your parents? Put your hands up. One, two, three, four, five, six, like that. Five and a half, seven. Okay, I sound like I'm bartering now. So seven of you. Brian, you need to do a whole series for these people on sex, I have a feeling, because there's only seven. So I'm here, here you go. No, my point being, listen to this. All research, liberal and conservative, Christian and non. All research says that the more positive value-centered sex education kids receive from home, from their parents, the less promiscuous they'll be and the less confused they'll be. Right there was worth you staying in this session. Just to hear that, now you can go leave if you want. Because honestly, what I'm gonna try to get you to do is make sure that you have conversations with your kids. It's not a one-time talk, it's dialogue. And I think as Christians, we spend a lot of time complaining about what's going on in the public media. And we should. Well, we should at least have concerns. But I don't think we spend as much time complaining. I think we need to do something about it. How do you do something about it? We take charge with our six-year-old. We take charge with our 16-year-old. We start talking to kids at certain ages, right? So what do we do? What do we say? Well, I wanna teach us what I call the purity code. And I realize the word purity has some negative connotations now because even some Christians have kind of turned this into kind of a weird thing. The purity is a great word. It's a word that's very biblical. Here's the purity code. I'm looking for over a million kids. I have looked for over a million kids. We now have had over a million kids make this commitment. What we find is that if I'm speaking to kids, they'll make the commitment, but that doesn't last. If they have their parents help them understand this, no matter what the age. Now again, you're not gonna give this to your youngest, but this is your goal. In honor of God, my family and my future spouse, I commit my life to sexual purity. Okay, it's that simple. Now, notice that it says in honor of God. So we've turned God sometimes into the great killjoy when it comes to sex. Definitely the public arena has, but actually God created sex. The Bible even teaches us God created sex and he sees it as very good. I'm gonna talk about a theology in a minute. I'm gonna talk about a theology of healthy sexuality. And frankly, there is a theology of healthy sexuality. Theology just means the study of God and sexuality. And actually he comes out looking really, really good. But we don't talk enough about it in the church. So in honor of God, my family. So now what I'm saying is bring our family into it. Do your kids know your family values? Many times kids, especially when I was working with teens, kids didn't know what the family values were or the family just said, don't do it. And that's it. And then they had silence. Seven of you had your parents do a good job with that. And then it says in my future spouse, no kid is thinking about their future spouse. But future spouse, that means I'll talk sometimes about radical respect. How do we radically respect the opposite sex when we're younger and older, but when we're younger because we're at somebody, you're dealing with somebody who's gonna, it's gonna be their wife, their husband, see. And then it says, I commit my life to sexual purity. I think you do it four ways. And these all have scripture to it. I love these scriptural principles. So number one is you honor God with your body. There you go. Honor God with your body. The body is not meant for sexual immorality, but for the Lord and the Lord for the body. So in other words, are we gonna teach our kids from an early age that we honor God with our body, that our body is a gift from God, see. And sure, our body does other things than, you know, make babies, but our body should, we should honor God with our body. And that's a key issue. Secondly is we renew our mind for good. So again, the Bible says, do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Now, what I like to say, and it goes on, then you will be able to test and prove what God's will is, his good, pleasing, and perfect will. Now, what I like to say to parents, and I like to say it to kids too, is that the most powerful sex organ is not your private parts. The most powerful sex organ is your mind. So we've gotta help our kids understand that if they put garbage into their mind, then garbage is gonna come out, but if they put good things into their mind, then good things are gonna come out. It goes back to that idea of spiritual discipline or just simply discipline, but we do it through our mind. We renew our mind for good. Thirdly is you turn your eyes from worthless things. The scripture says in Psalm 119.37, turn your eyes from worthless things. So that means Jim, who had three daughters, so of course we had no hormones or drama in our life, but Jim had three daughters. I had to actually be the one to talk to them about what they wear. My kids, we live at the beach. My kids all surf. There's not a whole lot of cloth on some swimsuits, right? And even like, my daughters, I don't think they ever dressed like to be all sexual, but they dressed to be cute. They didn't even dress for guys. They dressed for other girls to go, oh, I like that top, whatever. But I had to help them understand that guys look at skin. So sometimes what would be appropriate or not appropriate, and I didn't get my kids going, dad, that is the, thank you so much for saying that. That's just amazing. No, they hassled me, okay? But that's the kind of conversation you have with a boy. You have to teach them to bounce their eyes. I mean, I'm 68 years old. I still need to bounce my eyes, okay? Again, I'm out there on the water and some woman comes going by and I'm looking at actually four cheeks, two here and two here, and I need to bounce my eyes. See what I'm saying? So we teach them the discipline of bouncing their eyes. And for young women, the same kind of thing too. Then the last one, maybe one of the most important, guard your heart, guarding your heart above all else. So the Bible says guard your heart above all else for it determines the course of your life. Now again, this is not something about just sexuality. I mean, my goodness, this is just a great scripture. But even those of you, the seven of you that had your parents talk to you about sexuality, did they teach you to guard your heart? Because if kids don't know how to guard their heart, they're gonna tend to make some poor choices. So this is your job, parents. And is it gonna be easy? No, it's not gonna be easy. So my daughter, Christy, my oldest, I told her that a good friend of mine named Reggie, I said Reggie's daughter Hannah said that he was really awkward when Reggie had the conversation with Hannah about sex. And she goes, and you think you weren't? She goes, your bald head would start sweating, you would start studying, and your ears would turn red. She goes, dad, you could speak to thousands of kids about sex and not even sweat, and you'd start talking to us, and you'd be going blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And I totally did that, I totally get that, it's awkward. I'm not saying this is gonna be simple and easy. I'm saying it's gonna be sometimes more complicated, see? So again, guard your heart above all else, because it determines the course of your life. That's how you live by the purity code. So that's something that we wanna be able to teach our kids. Let me give you a couple of facts. Number one fact is that the secular perspective is different than the Christian perspective. So you got a secular perspective out there, they care about sex, that's why public education does this. They care about unwed pregnancies, they care about abortion, they care about these different things, but here's the difference. For them, it's not the act of, it's the result of. So it's the result, they have problems with unwed pregnancies, they have problems with dads who are deadbeat dads who are 17 or whatever it might be. But the point is, it's the result of. For Christians, it's the whole person. So for example, in the book, The Purity Code, there's a book out there for kids 10 and older, The Purity Code, there's a book out there called Teaching Your Children Healthy Sexuality. In both those books, I quote the same study. And the same study says that for girls, 25%, one out of four girls, either three months before to three months after experience clinical depression if they've had a sexual relationship with a boy. Okay, now at the same time, they've had a euphoric experience because God created pleasure, and there is pleasure, as we all know. But the point I'm saying is, is there are some consequences that are not just physical consequences, there are also even emotional consequences that are taking place. And so we have to talk what's right or wrong. That goes back to The Purity Code. So the Christian view is different, and we are in the minority. Don't you be thinking that we're in the majority. In 1974, when Jimmy Burns was living in Anaheim, California where I grew up and went to high school and worked at Disneyland and all that stuff, in 1974, 75% of the population in America, not Christian, but the whole population, said they would not live with someone before or instead of marriage. Today, 75% say that they would live with someone before or instead of marriage. So the culture has taken a radical change. But also that means that our view of sexuality is a minority view. But that still doesn't mean that it's not the best view. Even those secular studies that I'm talking about are saying that if parents would talk to their kids, their kids are going to be less confused. But again, where are they going to get their information? They're going to get their information, number one, from the internet. That's the number one place they get it. Or from friends. That may not be the best place for your kids to get this information, and all because we don't want to talk about it. So I'm not telling you it's easy. I'm just saying it's time to have some of those conversations. Please don't do that tonight. Like put your kids around the table and say, we're going to talk about sex tonight. And if you've got a 17-year-old, you go, we're going to talk about sex. We've never talked about it before. And they're going to go, okay, mom, what do you want to know? So, you know, it doesn't have to be tonight, is what I'm saying. But the other element of it is what I call the instant intimacy perspective. I brought it up. I've talked about cohabitation for a moment. Remember, 75%. So what we don't understand, and as parents, I want you to hear this loud and clear, is that when kids have a sexual relationship, they become instantly intimate. Dr. Ray Short, out of University of Wisconsin, is now saying that it takes two or three years if a couple is having sex to actually understand if it was infatuation or if it's actually love. What happens in two to three years? They get married. I remember at a church, I was at a church that's now a church called Mariners, but when I came, it was a church called South Coast Community, I was the youth pastor. But I had a counseling background, and so I'm doing a lot of counseling. And there's a couple, and they're talking with me, and they got a five-year-old and a two-year-old, and they had quite a testimony. They had both not been raised in the church. They'd both lived kind of a wild life. They got saved, they became Christians, and then they just hated each other. So they'd been married for six years. And finally, I just said, why did you guys get married? They go, well, we thought we loved each other. And I said, can I ask you a personal question? Did you get married because you were having sex? And both of them looked at me and said, yes. And then the guy said, that was kind of the only reason, because I felt bad as a Christian that I was having sex, and I loved it with her, and I thought it was love, but I don't think it was, I think it was the sex. See, they were experiencing instant intimacy. Now they got a big problem on their hands, because they have a five-year-old and a two-year-old. So the instant intimacy that we see when kids are having promiscuous sex, when kids are having, when they're moving in with others, even the secular world has studies like that. If you cohabitate, greater chance, if you get married, greater chance of divorce, greater chance of adultery in the marriage, and actually less sexual satisfaction, which actually is kind of fascinating. There's a woman in here who's a counselor, and she would know those statistics, because we all know those, but the secular world doesn't tell us that, because the secular world wants to be woke enough to say, yeah, it's cool, it's not cool, it's not smart. So actually, we have the right view from the scripture, because God is in the protection business as well, see? So the less baggage kids bring into their relationship of marriage, the better. So kids are making sexual decisions based on at least three things. Number one is peer pressure, or the pressure to conform. Today, you're seeing so much peer pressure in junior high with girls especially, even in the gender fluidity stuff. And so you got a lot of kids in junior high, a lot of young women and men, but a lot of young women who are actually gender confused, they think they might be gay, they think they might want to transition, but they actually don't know that, because again, it's peer pressure. I was talking with that counselor before, we were talking about gender identity issues. What we were saying was that, what I was saying was, it used to be gender dysphoria was only among boys. I mean, a little bit with girls, but very, very, very few. The percent is minute, and it was boys for 100 years. And all of a sudden, as the culture changed, now it's mainly with girls who are teenagers. Why? It's just like when girls were all talking, they cut themselves. Well, nobody thought that was a great idea, but today when a girl is in a gay relationship, or a lesbian relationship, or wanting to transition, or doing whatever, or says they're non-binary or whatever, there's people who actually think that's a good idea. So when they were cutting, people were going, no, no, please don't do that. You're eating disorder, no, no, no, please don't do that. But now with gender fluidity, they're getting praise for that, and sometimes even praise from their teachers and things like that. So it's a complicated deal, but peer pressure. Secondly, and this may be the most important, is that their emotional involvement exceeds their maturity level. So you show me a 14-year-old boy or girl, they're in love, and so they're making decisions because they're in love, but it's puppy love. You know this, as an adult, they don't. Puppy love is still real to puppies. And so their emotional involvement with this kid, and this may be your story, by the way, but their emotional involvement exceeds their maturity level and they can't say no. So they find themselves in a compromising situation. They've accepted the purity code. They've committed to the purity code, but then they get in a relationship and their emotional involvement exceeds their maturity level. And the third one is what I've been saying here, is that it's lack of information. One thing we can stop right now is for everybody in this room, if we're gonna have conversations with our kids, then we can stop that lack of information thing. Now it's funny, my daughter, Christy, who has the two seven-year-old, almost seven on Thursday, seven-year-old and a four-year-old, she calls me up. They were living in Texas for a year. And anyway, she calls me up and she goes, you know, Dad, that book, James is asking a lot of questions. So it's that book. I go, what book? And she goes, you know, it's that sex book. Can you send it to me? And I went, absolutely. So I send her the book and I get there about two weeks later. I was speaking in Dallas. And so I come over for dinner and she goes, Dad, can you go read that book to James? And I go, Christy, have you not read it to him yet? Or has Steve? And Steve's like, no, no, not me. And I go, you know, it's supposed to be the parents. Grandparents can do it, so I read it to him. He loves the book. And it was so funny because it wasn't awkward for him. He was just at that point, you know, like a three-year-old, right? So we're having this conversation, James and I, and I could tell that Christy and Steve are like this. You know? And so with Charlotte, I noticed that they were reading the book with Charlotte even before three, but just having these, you know, God made your body easy types of things. Why? So you can be the safest person. So it's lack of information. They're making that, okay? Now, let me add this. There are some mixed messages that your kids are getting today. What are they, where's the first mixed message? Well, let me play into our life. So the first mixed message comes from parents. It's silence, all but seven of you. You got silence or you got don't do it. Now from the church, the church is doing a much better job these days than it used to, but what a lot of kids still hear is, don't do it because it's dirty, rotten, horrible. Save that dirty, rotten, horrible thing until you're married and then it's gonna be great on your honeymoon. Say, and so again, that's the mixed message that some get. Okay. Anybody in here get that message when you were growing up from the church? Oh yeah, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. You gotta look at that. There's tons of hands going up, not your church, they weren't there. You were just a young boy at that point. But anyway, very important that we hear that. So that's what your kids might be hearing too if you're not careful, okay. And then interesting enough from the culture, this is how you do it. Be safe, so use a condom. 38% of kids who even use a condom don't use it right and it doesn't work or they forget to use a condom. So birth control isn't the answer here. But yet the secular world throws it as if birth control is the answer to everything, okay. So again, there's some mixed messages that are taking place. Now when do you start? Now I've already talked about this a little bit, but I simply wanna talk about when do you start, okay, talking to your kids. So the first time, and this is just a review, you can put it up on the screen. But the first part is three to five. God made your body, God made boys, God made girls. And yeah, you say the word, God made your penis. You got little boys running around age 11 calling their private parts their wing-a-ding-ding because you didn't tell them it was a penis, okay. Just get over that. Make it safe for you. I can't believe I just said that. Brian is going, we need to get rid of this guy soon, okay. This is a terrible story, but here you go. So my daughter, Becca, with Christy, we went, this is your nose, this is your mouth, this is your chin, this is your elbow, these are your knees. We sort of missed major parts of her body, okay. I think she called her private part her pee-pee, which is fine. So Becca, we got it straight. So we said, this is your vagina. And she couldn't say the word vagina, so she called it bud-gina. Way too much information, but that's what my kids called that part of their body for years. In fact, a woman who was on our board at Homeward was what she called the vagina doctor because she was an OB-GYN. She goes, yes, I'm the Berns's family's vagina doctor. I'm like, oh, geez, this is like too much. So we're at Ralph's one day, and Rebecca's in a stroller. And a little old lady comes up, which all people do when you have kids, and she goes to Becca. We're in line to go through the takeout or check out. And she goes, you are so pretty. What's your name? She goes, Becca, and I know I'm pretty, and my vagina itches. And we're like, ah! So I'm like, Kathy, the woman is speechless. She has no idea what to say. I said, Kathy, I think we need to go get some more yogurt. I'm gonna go over to the yogurt real quick, and Kathy's like just stuck, like I don't even like you, Jim, right now that you've left me here. The only person who was not awkward about it was Becca. See what I'm saying? So that was a healthy thing to do, okay? So you're going, I can't believe we're having this conversation. I feel like I'm talking, it's like the sex talk to kids. I feel like I'm doing that to you right now. You know, how God makes babies. So that's when you begin to talk about a little bit more detail, but not the detail. You don't do that until right before puberty. Now, I don't know what Scott talked about, but the truth is, and I'll mention pornography here, but you know, today, kids see pornography at age 11. Okay, so excuse a little lower for boys. Girls, right now it's 11.9. Notice that I didn't say some of you saw pornography, some of you didn't. What I'm saying is kids will see pornography. It's just too prevalent today. It could be a pop-up, it could be so many different ways. But when God makes babies, it's six to nine, but the purity code, that's when you start talking about sexual systems, that's when you start talking about relating to the opposite sex, and you say, 10 years old? Yeah, unless you want them to see pornography as the first introduction to sex. And again, what's going on at 10? Beginning of puberty, not puberty yet. Well, puberty happens on the inside first, see. So they're already beginning to change. Get them prepared for what's about ready to just kill some of those kids in terms of, they're gonna have hair growing where hair wasn't growing, they're gonna have shapes that change, and life changes, and their voices change, and all these other things, and all of a sudden girls and boys look more inviting to each other, and so all that changes. You gotta prepare them for that. And you say, but if I talk about it, aren't they gonna wanna go do that? No, no research says that if you have a conversation with your kids about it, that they wanna go do it. Now what you're doing is demystifying them, see. So that's an important thing to understand. And then by the time they're 14, you talk about anything and everything, see. This is where the conversations get sometimes a little dicey, that's okay. Now at the same time, I think it's important that we, and some of you need this, but your kids need what I'm gonna call a theology of healthy sexuality. What do I call a theology of healthy sexuality? It's a theology of healthy sexuality, it's just simply what does God talk about when he talks about sex? And so we're gonna build a foundation so you can actually do this at a young age, and then you just keep bringing it back. You know how sometimes with little kids, you can tell them a story and then the story becomes more meaningful a little bit later, and more meaningful and more meaningful. So what do we teach them if we're gonna build a theology of healthy sexuality, developing healthy sexuality? First of all, God created sex. That's found in Genesis 2, 18 through 25. He created male and female. But when he created male and female, what does it say in Genesis 2? And one and two are kind of what we call the accretion account. What does it say? He created birds, it was good. He created the earth, it was good. He created oceans, it was good. Stars, sun, good. But when he created male and female, he said something different. What did he say? It was very good. So he not only created sex, but it was good. See? So instead of talking about sex from a negative point of view, we're gonna talk about it from a positive point of view. God created your sexuality, and he sees it as very good. Now there's other things we've gotta bring up. Adultery, this is what many of you knew that scripture from your church days when you were younger. The 10 Commandments says do not commit adultery. Adultery, adultery is when two people have a sexual relationship and at least one is married to somebody else. Does anybody think that's a good idea? No. Does it break up families? Of course it does. So does that mean that God's the great killjoy? No, it means he wants the best for you. He's guarding you because if you have an adulterous relationship, it's gonna mess you up. It's carrying baggage into a relationship. It's tough. Can you be forgiven? Of course you can. Can you get help? Yes, you can. At the same time, it's really, really tough. So he's trying to protect you. God is in the protection business saying don't commit adultery. Now here's another one that's interesting, and it's a word you haven't probably thought about for a long time. The word is fornication. It's actually a Greek word that is pornea. Pornia is actually translated in the more modern versions of the Bible, which is actually correct, immorality. But the fascinating side to it has the same root word for fornication, pornography, immorality. It's the same root here. So the Bible says it is God's will that you should be sanctified. So in other words, very few times in the Bible does it ever say this is God's will for you. It's only a handful of times. That doesn't mean that the Bible isn't God's will. It just means it doesn't say this is God's will. They didn't use that sentence. It is God's will for you that you should be sanctified. So what I'm challenging kids to think about is that they should be cleansed, that they should be holy. Both are words that they don't get. I'm saying you're gonna be different. So it's God's will for you to be different, meaning if everybody else is having sex, you're not as a Christ follower. That you should avoid sexual immorality. It doesn't say avoid sex and marriage. It says avoid sexual immorality. Why? Because God is in the protection business. I've got a girl from my youth group who went to UCLA and she was in a sorority. And she was the only virgin in the sorority which doesn't bid well for this sorority. And she was telling us this at Homeward. She was working for us in the summer after her last year when she graduated. And her name is Jeannie and I just love her. And they called her Virgin Jeannie. And they kind of mocked her and made fun of her because all the girls were promiscuous but her. And one Sunday night, she was telling us all this story around lunch one time. One Sunday night, they said, hey Virgin Jeannie, blah, blah, blah. And it just bugged her. So all of a sudden, in her emotion, she just said, you guys, you are so rude. Plus, at any time I could become like you but you could never again become like me. And they went, whew. What's fascinating is Jeannie said to me later that most of those girls talked to her and they'd been in relationships that were kind of broken up and a mess. UCLA had a study that said kids, girls, would say that they would have sex with a boy if they spent $100 on it. That's almost prostitution. Now they weren't thinking it that way. Please don't hear that. But what I'm saying is Jeannie, who I married to her husband, and she actually did the purity code ring thing with her parents, and she took the purity code ring that she had on her finger and handed it to her husband that day. And I'm just telling you, there wasn't a dry eye in the crowd when she did that. He couldn't do that. He has a testimony. But today they work with kids. They work with kids in Philadelphia. It's a pretty incredible ministry that she's a part of. Her husband's awesome. And what I'm saying is she brought less baggage into it. That was because her parents had the courage to have a conversation, and our job as the church was to come alongside her parents. Not me just take the lead as her youth pastor, but the church to come alongside. So what I'm saying is that's a pretty important scripture to let our kids know about, right? And it's not because God's the great killjoy. It's because he wants the best for you. The next scripture goes like this. Jesus speaking in Matthew 19, four through six, haven't you read, Jesus replied, that at the beginning the creator made them male and female and said, for this reason, a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife and the two will become one flesh. Do you think Jesus was speaking about just spirituality there? No. He was actually talking about the physical act of a relationship between a husband and a wife. Beautiful. And what does he say? You become one flesh. He says, use the word united. Note the word united can also be translated bonded. So today we have a lot of kids who make poor choices and they were bonded to somebody else. And what we really want our kids to do is to have the discipline. Sure, there's grace in all this if they make mistakes, but they're still now they were bonded with somebody else. And so this is to become one flesh. So you teach kids about becoming one flesh. This might've been said at your wedding. Therefore, what God has joined together, let no one separate. Now the next scripture and the last one is found in 1 Corinthians 6, 18 through 20. And this is a great scripture to teach kids. And I think it's teaching kids about the purity code. Flee from sexual immorality. All other sins a person commits are outside of their body. But he or she, by the way, who sins sexually sins against his own body. Do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you whom you've received from God? Then it goes on to say, you are not your own. You're bought at a price. What's the price? Got that cross right there. You're bought at a price. Therefore, honor God with your body. And it goes back to the purity code. Now I'm looking at the time and I'm gonna do this in five minutes. And I'm gonna take Q&A. We'll be done at the exact time. This always means we gotta take some Q&A. But I wanna talk about one other aspect. I hate to leave you on a downer, but I wanna talk about pornography. Because it is what could take this generation down. Okay, I was talking to that woman who has a six-year-old. And the odds are is that kid's gonna see pornography by age 10. And I know some of you might even struggle with pornography, but let me help you understand what takes place with pornography. This is why you gotta be in, and with pornography. I don't think if your kids viewed pornography or they told you they did, or you saw it on their history or something like that, you take the computer and you break it and you freak out. This is the time for you to say, honey, it's not this, it's this. And that's where you begin to teach them that's theology of healthy sexuality. That's the way you do it. You don't just focus on the porn stuff. So I'm on radio about six times out of 20 for a ministry called New Life Live. It's on KKLA here in LA. And the amount of people who call us with porn addictions and broken relationships, oh my gosh, you know when it started? It started when they were young. We've got a big event at Homeward on next Sunday night, and we have a couple, and they are just the cutest couple, and you would think they would just be, they don't look like porn people, but they are. They have three little kids. And it's their story of overcoming porn. They're part of the program. And they are so clean-cut. They found porn at Vanguard University, not that that's a bad thing, that Vanguard's a bad thing. Finding porn messed their life up big time. And so the result of this, we just have to at least understand what porn does. So let me give you the kind of the porn escalation story. Number one, kids view pornography. Boys view pornography earlier. The greatest new users of porn are boys ages 12 to 17. Girls are right behind them. And see, it didn't used to be girls like this, but now it's girls. The interesting side is, is boys, they're visual, so they'll view the porn. Girls sometimes do it through being in a chat room with somebody or not using their real name or reading stories of porn. And actually, that's almost tougher to help a young woman get through the porn issue. So first of all, they view pornography. And what happens when you view pornography? Your mind takes a picture of it. So for me, when I was in eighth grade, I looked at a magazine and I saw a topless woman. I had never seen a topless woman before. All brothers, never saw my mom topless. I had never seen a topless woman until I saw this picture. What do you think the name of the magazine was? Playboy? No. I think somebody said it over here. National Geographic, it wasn't a porn magazine. So it was legal. I could keep that on my bed stand and my parents thought that was cool. See, so I'm 68 years old. This was in eighth grade. I still see this picture of this woman. She was standing in the Amazon and she didn't have a top on. It's not a pretty picture, believe me, of what she looked like, but there she was with all of her glory. She had a grass skirt. She was barefoot standing in the water. She had a spear in her hand and she had a cigarette coming out of her mouth. I'm 68, I still see the picture. So what about the porn today is what I'm trying to say. So we've gotta be able to help our kids make some better decisions than they're making right now because it's not going so well. Addiction, addiction simply means, to the easiest classic illustration, addiction just simply means I want more. And that's what's happening is kids will see porn and they'll still want more. Believe me, the Christian kids are very similar to the non-Christian kids. Don't be thinking that this is not a Christian deal. Then it escalates. So now you view more porn. So when you view more porn, what happens? The next one is you get desensitized to it. So what was gross just two months ago isn't gross anymore. What was gross two weeks ago isn't gross. So in the desensitized part, they're looking for more, they're wondering what would it be like with threesomes and homosexual sex and all this kind of stuff. And it's so prevalent. You ask any junior high boy, is it possible to see whoever the latest greatest person is? It could be Britney Spears right now is out there, Lindsay Lohan, these are names that aren't as popular junior high boys right now. But they're all topless on YouTube. So I'm sure Scott talked about this, but today it's not Facebook. You're on Facebook. Facebook is the largest country in the world. Because you're on Facebook, your kids are not on Facebook. They're on TikTok and they're on YouTube. And they're on Instagram. And YouTube is soft, there's some soft porn on YouTube. You can easily see, somebody said to me, it was kind of weird, I was talking with somebody and I said, well, you know, this was a couple years ago, but they said, YouTube, you can see Britney Spears with her top up. And I went, on YouTube, you can? And so I'm talking to people and it's after a thing. And all of a sudden, he puts in front of me, Britney Spears, it's almost a sexual act that she was doing. And I was like, take that away from me. I still have that picture in my head too. See, when you think of junior high, if I was in junior high and somebody goes, you wanna see so-and-so with her top off? You think I'd go, no, you know, I'm living by the purity code. I'm not gonna do that, see? So the point that I'm saying is, we've got a job to do, parents. And then we begin to act it out sexually. So what they're saying today is that oftentimes the first sexual relationship is imitating the art of porn. You know, I saw this on my phone. What do you think about this? What's the greatest distributor of internet porn? The cell phone, this thing right here since 2011. That's what we know, okay? So if that's the case, then yeah, whatever Scott said, I'm with you, and if he talked about this, I don't wanna belabor it, but I just simply wanna say, you know what, we've gotta create media safe homes because of that, they're gonna act it out sexually. So first they act it out in their mind. So now, again, if they're seeing this stuff, boy, talk about the lust factor and so much of what they're doing with their mind and their imagination, but then that's not gonna satisfy them, so that's why we find kids being sexually promiscuous, a lot if they've been seeing porn is because they want to experience this. But it's a fake sense of intimacy. There isn't anybody in this room who's been involved with porn who would say, yeah, I've been involved with porn and it was just great for our relationship. No, it's a fake sense of intimacy. See, so again, as parents, one of the reasons, not the only reason, and I'm not trying to make it bad at the end here, but I'm just trying to say, we need to be able to talk to our kids about this. And yet at the same time, the answer is the same. Just what I said, it's not this, honey, it's so much, it's this, and you begin to teach a healthy sexuality. And then we come back to the purity code, right, we go back to the purity code, in honor of God, my family, my future spouse, I commit to sexual purity. That's what you want, okay? Welcome to Homeward, I'm Jim Burns and I'm very happy that you are with us today. Thanks for listening and also thanks for all the great comments that are coming in on our podcast. So, you know, this is a new podcast and I'm so excited that we get the chance to have a conversation today with my good friend Bob Paul and we'll talk about Bob in just a moment. My goal here is to bring wonderful communicators who are experts in the field and we have four values strong marriages, confident parents, empowered kids and healthy leaders and that's what we've been about for years and years at Homeward and we'll continue to be about that and today we're going to talk about strong marriages. Now in order to journey toward a better marriage, sometimes we have to demystify what's going on and that's exactly what we're going to do. So we brought my friend and an expert, his name is Dr. Robert Paul, I call him Bob Paul. He's the Vice President of Focus on the Families, Marriage Institute and Hope Restored Marriage Intensives and we're going to tell you about those because they're awesome, awesome, awesome. He's a licensed professional counselor and a major, in my opinion, thought leader when it comes to marriages and I just love this man. He and his wife Jenny live in Springfield, Missouri, but I don't hold that against him. They have four adult children and seven, counting, grandchildren. He and Dr. Greg Smalley have written a wonderful book entitled Nine Lies that will destroy your marriage and the truce that will save it and set you free. Bob, welcome to the broadcast. I've been so excited to have you on it. Oh, it's great to be with you always, Jim. Now I need to tell you right now that I have to pick a bone with you because we used to have lunch in Southern California because you'd come and see family, but we don't get to do that as much anymore because the family moved. Yeah, they moved to another part of Southern California, so I'm not in your backyard all the time, so I miss you. That's not fair. You know, it's funny. There's that place that we go to, that barbecue place. I sometimes would go there and I always think, wait, this is the place that Bob and I go. So, you know, we got we got to pull that together sometime. Hey, before we talk about the lies and the myths that can really do harm to a marriage, I want to do a backstory. And I actually read the backstory in your book, so I know you've talked about it. Greg grew up in a home with Dr. Gary Smalley, a mentor in my life. I know in years and you wrote with Gary Smalley, you wrote the DNA of relationships, which was an incredible book. But, you know, he came from from an authentic Christian leaders home. Greg did. On the other hand, you were born into a family that really didn't have as much of a Christian background. In fact, in the book, you said, you know, my family was kind of new agey and you became a Christian later in life. And interesting enough, though, your family was very strong when it came to marriage enrichment. And, you know, there were some books written that were amazing and actually huge sellers and kind of almost, you know, counselors to the stars in Hollywood. So what was it like being raised in a home? Here's Greg saying, yeah, my dad was a Christian. My mom's a Christian. You know, we do Christian stuff. You were raised in a home that wasn't that way. What was it like? My home was, yeah, my home was absent of anything religious, anything faith oriented. That I mean, they did become more new agey in my teens and so forth. But part of that, there was a complete void there. But they did become my dad and my stepmother did really become therapists. And because we were in West Los Angeles at the time, they ended up becoming pretty prominent and they had a lot of very celebrity oriented clientele. And yeah, it was interesting because they were movers and shakers in the field. So I grew up around that and was influenced by the thought process. And matter of fact, there was a period of time where my parents were like my idols. So much like Greg Smalley, we both grew up being influenced by our parents' thought processes. And it influences the way I thought. And never in a million years, Jim, did I realize how much the Lord was preparing me for what he had for me. Because I just learned from a young age to think this way. And it has deeply influenced everything I think and I do. Yeah, isn't that great? You know, I think and I wasn't raised in a Christian home. And and yet I learned a lot from my parents. I mean, I didn't have the wounded. My parents were good people. There was alcoholism in the family. But but I think partly God gives us our parents for certain reasons. And reading this book, I actually saw some things that were really healthy from your parents' material that, you know, you brought to this material. Well, I want to get into it because you talk about these lies and these myths, if you would, that can damage it. And I just I smiled through reading this book. And this is actually the second time around for me reading the book, because I'd read it when you when it first came out. And there's kind of this first lie. And I bought into this. Boy, I've become a Christian. I've been a Christian for a couple of years when I started dating Kathy. And I call this the fairy tale marriage, or what you said is, and they lived happily ever after. Now, for me, the shock was we said I do. I will. I love you. And we thought because we were Christians and in ministry, it was going to go well. And we had a really, really hard first year. And we were shocked because we figured all Christians, you know, just had lived happily ever after. Speak to that myth. Well, I think first of all, before we get into the specific myth, it's worth noting that being a product of our culture, I would say that there's there's ways in which I bought into all of them, because it really is what our culture teaches. You know, what we found in the work that we've done with through our therapy work is that many people are set up to fail in the relationship because they're taught things to believe about the way relationships work and the way they're supposed to operate in relationship. And when it doesn't work, they aren't thinking that it's because it can't work. They're thinking there must be something wrong with me or must be something wrong with my spouse. I mean, I got an effective spouse. And rarely does it turn out to be the people that are the problem. It's that we're believing things. We're trying to use strategies that they cannot work. And we don't realize that. So because we were taught by well-meaning people. So this first slide, you know, the way our culture works, I totally bought into. It never dawned on me that it was a fairy tale, because I thought like you, that when I get married, that I'm going to be that I'm going to be happy and that the measure of a marriage is whether or not the people in it are happy. So therefore, if happiness is fading, the marriage obviously is fading and if happiness is gone, the marriage is gone. And, you know, our culture teaches that, you know, we're supposed to be pursuing life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. I mean, it's built into the direct declaration of independence. So so that was a tough one. It didn't dawn on me at first that it was a fairy tale. Yeah. And I think we need to shout that out that it isn't all about happiness. I remember an experience when when Kathy and I had first gotten married, I was a youth pastor at a church and we would argue on the way to church. And of course, then I would speak on the joy of a Christian family to those kids. They look somewhat hypocritical, right? And there was an elder in the church that told me that they had never fought. They just didn't fight. And so I bought that because my parents sure fought, but they weren't doing it from a Christian standpoint. This was an elder in the church. And, you know, seven years later, they got a divorce. And so I don't know if they didn't fight and maybe they didn't because they were bearing stuff or whatever. But it was a really insightful thing for me seven years later that, wait, these people weren't right. And that, yeah, there are going to be issues there. How do we how do we rectify that? What do we do to, you know, we bought into it, but now we we have to change. What's the positive side to that? Well, I think it's important to recognize that, first of all, it's important for us to state here that we're not anti-happy. I mean, I'm all about happy. And I do believe that more happy is better than less happy. So it's not like we're saying you just need to suck it up and and it's going to be miserable and OK, deal with that. What we're saying is that the measure of a marriage can't be about happy because there are just things about life in this fallen world that don't lend themselves to happy and happy wouldn't be an appropriate reaction to some of the stuff, some of the stuff we're seeing in our culture right now is not leading people to feel happy. So the key is that the change for me was when I realized that when I was choosing Jenny to be my wife, I wasn't choosing my happily ever after partner. I was choosing my journeying partner. My wife is the person that I journey with through good times, through bad times and sickness and health till death do us part. This is my this is my friend. This is my this is the person that when some of the challenges of life come our way unexpectedly, we we rally together and find a way to have each other's back and be there with and for each other during the ups and downs, which are going to be inevitable. Right. As a married person in a fallen world. Oh, it's really, really, really good. There's another myth. And I think a lot of us buy into the myth we buy into it. And you mentioned this in your book. We buy into it when we do the unity candle, which is still popular, not as popular, but it's one plus one equals one. And you go, oh, no, that's a lie. That's a myth. Well, and yeah, and I hate the unity candle. As a matter of fact, I've got to the point, Jim, where I'm all about marriage. I love marriage as a as a relationship, but I hate weddings. I because, you know, I've spent a life as a therapist, a marriage therapist, and I have to unravel these lies in people's lives, these messes they get themselves into. And I hear I hear people being set up for frustration and failure on a regular basis. And I'm telling you, when I'm sitting in a pew at a wedding, they start saying this stuff from the pulpit. And I'm wanting to stand up and start shouting, no, you're setting them up to need me. It's like I want to hand them my card at the end and say, you probably need to hold on to this. You're probably going to need it. And here's what my problem is with the coming down the aisle. It's probably not the smartest thing to have in your car. Right. Yeah, I'm a killjoy at a wedding. But so this is what I struggle with with the unity candle. You know, the way this ceremony, the symbol works is you like these individual candles that represent the two people. And then they take the candle and they like the center candle that represents their marriage. OK, and then what do they do? They go and they blow that out. And that's where I'm fit to be tied, because in reality of the three parts of now a marriage, the husband and the wife and the relationship, only two of those are eternal. And it's not the marriage. Jesus made it very clear that we will not be married in heaven if we're believers, we'll both be there, but we won't be married anymore. Now, my little human heart, who adores my wife, can't imagine us both being there. She not be my wife anymore. But Jesus said it. I assume that the day I get there, he's going to put his arm around my shoulder and say, hey, son, here's how it goes. And I go, OK, that's cool. But at this moment, I can't wrap my mind around it. But this problem with the symbol is it basically suggests once you get married, you take your focus off the people and you put your focus all on the relationship. And that's bad theology because the people are eternal, not the relationship. Now, I'm not saying don't focus on making the relationship great. Yes, but not at the exclusion of making sure the people are whole and healthy, because Jesus came to die for people, not marriages. Well, even on a even on a spiritual degree here, you know, Jesus said a man will leave his father and mother be united to his wife. The two will become one flesh. Yes. We're talking about sexuality, but we've over-spiritualized that that the two become one. And that and that scripture is oftentimes used in that unity candle. Right. And I think that symbolically, we the way one is one of the problems with us in our in in an English speaking culture is that the word one has multiple meanings. And if you think we're talking about going from two to going to one, that's where the problem is, because theoretically, theologically at that point, oneness is being referred to as being meant to be understood as unity. Oneness of spirit in spirit and purpose, not the two become. I mean, I mean, I've seen you and your wife and you are, if that's the case, your oneness failures, because every time I see you, I see two. And Jenny and me, oneness failures. But we are in unity. We are one in spirit and purpose. It's a it's a great reminder for a lot of us who do, you know, people do sometimes, I think, over-spiritualize that. I don't mean that in a bad sense, but I think you're right. Here's another myth. And this one got me, too, because we seem to talk about this a lot within the Christian world. I must sacrifice who I am for the sake of the marriage. I thought you guys did a great job talking about this. And no doubt there's sacrifice in marriage. But but this I must sacrifice myself. What did you mean? Yeah, I think that there's an unfortunate misunderstanding about what it means to sacrifice. I mean, obviously, to be a believer, sacrifice is going to be required. I mean, and Jesus, you know, paid the ultimate sacrifice for us. I mean, he gave his life for us. That's a pretty serious sacrifice. And I'm willing to sacrifice. I'm willing to give of myself. Now, a couple of things. First of all, one of the areas where we get stuck is that many of us in the faith present the idea that I am basically of low value, kind of a worm, you know, not very valuable in and of myself. It's only in Christ that I have value, which clearly isn't true. I mean, the Lord made it clear that we are so valuable to him as precious children that he was willing to come and die for us and our well-being. That's of high value. And that he created me on purpose with purpose. And he wants me to value me as he created me, not to see myself as less than, not to see myself as needing to be changed, because if I do anything to change me or to change Jenny, which I did a lot of attempting to change her, I'm immediately at odds with the creator who made me this way. And I'm basically saying, you did something wrong. You made something. And I used to whine and complain, why did you make me this way? Why didn't you make me more like Jim or why didn't you make me more like whoever? And he basically put me in my place and said, Bob, I realize that you're unhappy with the way I created you, but I just need to remind you, you were not on the design committee when we when I created you. I didn't ask your opinion. I didn't need your opinion. I am perfectly satisfied with the way I created you and with what I created you for. And if you would just if you really want to please me, just be the best you you can be and do what I brought you here to do. And we will be completely satisfied. Now, this is one of the themes that I that I read over and over again in your book is if I could be the best me, I'm going to be a better I'm going to have a better marriage. And if Kathy could be the best her, we're going to put our two best together. And that's going to make it much healthier than me being a doormat or sacrificing or even being a codependent or whatever. Yeah. And this isn't about this isn't like the culture teaches. This isn't about making it all about me. No, I want to be I want to be as close to who God created me to be as I possibly that's what I mean by the best me. It's not if it feels good, do it kind of a thing. It's I want to be who God created me to be. And I want to I want to clarify and identify what he put me on this earth to do and get as close to doing that for his sake, for his purposes to be fulfilled. And that's what puts me that's what makes my life makes sense. It's what I what I was created for. Yeah, that's that's great. Codependency. You know, sometimes people sacrifice because they're codependent. My my family of origin, my my dad was an alcoholic, functioning alcoholic and actually a really good guy. It got to him later in life and he became sober at 69. I mean, I have a great story with my dad. But my mom was a codependent and she was lovely. I mean, she was my favorite, most inspirational person in my life. But she she was totally a codependent. Now, she wasn't coming from a Christian background, but I think her thought would have been, no, I sacrifice me to help, you know, this guy I married. Yeah, talk about codependency a little bit. I was a card carrying codependent. I believe that and this is what I mean by that. It's a good cycle babble term. So, you know, I'll flesh out what we actually mean. Yeah, you need to. I went I went into the marriage believing that Jenny was supposed to meet my needs and I was supposed to meet hers. She was supposed to care for my heart and I was supposed to care for hers and those types of things. And the problem I had, which turned out to be a blessing, is my wife doesn't have a codependent bone in her body. When I was trying to hand those responsibilities off to her, she's pushing it away. And I'm thinking she doesn't love me because if she did, she would want to do that for me and I would do that for her and we can live together in codependent bliss. But but the reality is that was never the way it was meant to be. I'm supposed to look to him to be my source, not her. And and to give from my abundance. Now, I sacrifice for my wife. I give generously for her, but I then go back to him to refill. I don't go to her to fill me up. I go to him to refill and then I give and then I fill and then I give and then I fill. And that allows me to keep giving of high quality and generously from a place of abundance, not a place of emptiness. Yeah, that's great. I hope everybody caught that. That's that's so key. People come to you. And again, this is even part of what your work is. And we'll get into that at the end of this podcast. But people will come and say we have irreconcilable differences. They're just it's just not working. And what is usually at the root of that when they say that? Is there hope for them? Oh, my gosh. Well, you know, it's probably the most cited reason for divorce today. Yeah, it's simple. It's an easy one. You don't even have to you know, you don't have to have any other cause other than you decide your differences are irreconcilable. But the the problem with that, Jim, is it it suggests that differences are the cause of trouble in marriage. And what we've come to realize is that differences are actually never the problem in marriage. We are different because God made us that way. Matter of fact, if Jenny and I were identical, one of us would be unnecessary. You know, you know, differences any any time you're on a team, you know, a great team is always going to be a group of people who who have differences and they play to each other's strengths and they cover each other's differences. And that's what makes the team thrive. And so Jenny and I are different on purpose by design, and those differences are meant to be of value. So the problem is in marriage, not knowing how to adequately value the differences and how to fully utilize them as they were intended. But the differences themselves are not the problem. Very interesting. I mean, we have to I had to learn how to how to accept that with with Kathy, because what drew me to Kathy, I'm an extrovert, she's an introvert. So that drew me. I love that when we got married. I'm having a shallow conversation with everyone at the party and she's having a conversation with one person on the sofa changing their life. But I'm mad at her because she hasn't had a shallow conversation with everybody else. Right. And I had to learn to embrace that. I'm I'm less detailed than she is. She would. She's not here. So she can she might say a little flaky, but I'm I'm saying less detailed. Doesn't that sound better? But, you know, there's a number of things that I had to learn to embrace. What do you suggest to somebody who's saying, you know, I'm really having trouble with these differences in the book. You said opposites attract in parentheses that said and divide. Yeah, I mean, I think that it's interesting because we've got a cliche to cover it all, you know, because we do say opposites attract, but we also say birds of a feather flock together. So which is it? Well, it's both, you know, I mean, people, anybody can be attracted to pretty much anybody. I do think that the differences can be awkward because unlike you guys, we're the opposite. I'm more the introvert, even though I love people and Jenny's the extrovert. Jenny gets charged at Christmas time going to a crowded mall. And that's not a place I would want to step foot in at Christmas time. I mean, I just feel crowded and and uncomfortable. And those can create, you know, that can create awkward. But I want to I want to recharge my battery by going into my cave. And Jenny wants to go out and be with people. And that doesn't charge me. That wears me out. So we've had to learn how to value those differences, I think, as you were saying with Kathy, and how to make good use of them as they as they have the potential to benefit us. But on the surface, they can become quickly irritants, even though at first we were fascinated by each other. They become more irritants. And we got to learn how to see them differently. Yeah. Learn how to see them differently. That's very good. Listen, we're going to take a quick break. We'll be right back. Don't forget to also subscribe to the podcast if you can. And you can always watch this podcast. You are beautiful faces on the Homeward YouTube channel. And when we come back, I want to talk to Bob about, I think, one of the most important things I've heard him speak on and then write on also in this book. And it's called The Heart Talk. And I want to bring that up. But right now we're going to take a real quick break. We'll be right back. Welcome back. I'm Jim Burns. Homeward, you're listening to Dr. Robert Paul is with us today. And again, he's written a great book and we have this all in the podcast notes. You can see it and you can see how to get this. The book is called Nine Lies That Will Destroy Your Marriage and The Truce That Will Save It and Set You Free. And he wrote that book with Dr. Greg Smalley. It's a great combo. Those are great. They're very good friends. And they just did a great job putting this together. Bob, before the break, we were talking about how opposites attract and divide and how we have to accept that. But you have a concept that's called the heart talk or the heart. Yeah, the heart talk. And I want you to I want you to describe that because I feel like that's really helpful, especially for people if they've been buying into these lies. How do they how do they deal with their heart? What would you say? I think the thing that's so important about that, Jim, is that many people in our culture and it's not always this way, but but gender stereotyping a bit more commonly, men have come to believe that feelings are more of a nuisance, especially certain feelings, some of the more vulnerable feelings are more of a nuisance than anything. And in reality, they were all feelings are morally neutral data and they were created by God on purpose with purpose. And one of the one of the most important aspects of feelings is that they are what enable us to connect on the more deep, profound, intimate levels. An intimate connection is always a heart to heart connection, an open heart to open heart, and feelings are the substance of that connection. So if you have people that only do what we call work talk, which is when you're talking about all the facts and figures and getting stuff done and strategies and that kind of stuff, if you if you have two people that only have that kind of conversation and ask them how they would describe what their relationship feels like, they would commonly say it feels more like a business partnership. And sometimes they might even say we're like business partners who don't even like each other. And really what what we find is that for people who are all built to long for this deeper bond, this deeper connection, the only way to actually get there is to be able to speak heart to heart and talk about what we're feeling, what we're wanting, what we're afraid of, what we're dealing with, what our dreams are, what our concerns are. Those are the places where we bond. Well, and what do you say to the couple who comes in and they want that? I mean, everybody wants intimacy and I'm calling that connection. But sometimes they don't know how to do it. And you were talking about in general, you know, men are worse at, you know, kind of dealing with their emotions and whatnot. They want their hearts to come together. What are some practical ways of bringing your heart together and kind of getting a win out of this? Well, and to your point, one of the one of the things about the tool, Hardtalk is all it is is a series of steps, just three steps for the speaker and the listener. It's very simple. It's the simplest version I've seen that create like emotional guardrails for your communication vehicle to keep you out of the communication ditch. That's all it is. It's not like they're magical. It's not like they're they're essential. They're just a way to make sure you can safely and effectively discuss what's going on in your heart and hear what's going on in your spouse's heart, even when they're different and making sure that it stays safe and secure in that conversation. So nobody walks away feeling like they regret having had the conversation. Yeah. And what I like about what you in your book is, you know, you'll give content, but then you also have these. I mean, they can work through the questions and there's diagrams and all those kind of things. And I think that's really, really helpful. I think sometimes the two, well, at least me, when I'm speaking on something, if I don't give practical tools, what you did is you would you would write something you and Greg and then you would give the practical tools to, OK, now work through this and develop those guardrails. Some people don't do well with the if they don't know what questions to ask or they don't know how to deal with the guardrails, it can kind of, well, go off the rail. And I appreciate that very, very much. Conflict. Now, you know, both in this book and in other things you've written. So give us some insight on, you know, the couple who's just conflicting like crazy. What would you say to them? You know, drop some wisdom on us here with if they're saying, well, I'm in a lot of conflict. Well, there's a couple of things that we can talk about regarding conflict. One, we've identified that underneath all conflict in any relationship, but especially in marriage, is a thing we call the reactive cycle. And it's basically everybody experiences it in one form or another. But, you know, something triggers me and my button gets pushed and I react, which triggers Jenny and her button gets pushed and she reacts, which pushes a button of mine and I react and we spin in a miserable cycle. And the cycle is the same. The details will be different because the people are different. What our buttons are will be different. How we react will be different. But the cycle is the same. So we line that out and we give you the opportunity to figure it out for yourself. There's there's tests you can take. We've even got an online test that can help you find your cycle. You go to reactive cycle dot com and you can take it and see what how it plays out. Yeah. But what we found is that in terms of working through it, once you realize what's going on and we teach you how to break it, that we give you some steps to resolve conflict. We call it the steps to a win win, seven steps to a win win. And the bottom line is we believe that our God is is all about unity and his interest and desire is to help couples be in complete and total unity with each other and with the Lord all the time. The enemy doesn't want that, but but but the Lord does. And there is a way in which we can take, we can go through that. And it's interesting that at Hope Restored and at Focus, we don't teach compromise. Contrary to what is taught by many people in our field, we never encourage couples to compromise because who wants to live with compromise? We teach people to to ask the Lord to help them find a solution to virtually any contact on conflict that they both feel great about and not settle for less. And we find that the Lord consistently will take us there if we can just get the heck out of his way and allow him to. No, that's really, really good. Tell me the name of the you said something dot com. And I want to put it in our in our podcast notes. Reactive cycle dot com. Dot com. OK, that's great stuff, by the way. I know as as Bob was talking about it and I was I was thinking, oh, that's right. I've been helped so much by much of his writing in that in that area. And there's some great things you can you can deal with. Now, Bob, you run something called the Hope Restored Intensive. You know, you're not at every one of them, but you lead this incredible ministry. As you know, I love this. I've sent people through the intensives and they come out different people. I have wonderful stories about people coming who I honestly thought they don't have any hope. OK, here you go, Bob. And and they come out different. And so I want you to tell us about Hope Restored. I was at Wind Shape last weekend speaking. I was actually state Kathy and I were staying in the rooms where they do these beautiful intensives. We were staying in one of the bedrooms. But then, of course, there's a there's a meeting room. And it's life changing. It's it's it's the best I know. I mean, you know, I know this. I mean, I that I'm totally sold on what you're doing. Tell us about it and then tell us how they can get some information about it as well. Well, we, you know, being being therapists and being influenced by my family. I learned about doing intensive therapy, which is different than the typical hourly, weekly sessions. You know, and that can be really profitable, really valuable. It can be really frustrating for couples that are struggling because, you know, it's hard to unpack all of that in an hour. And then you got another week or two before your next session and stuff happens. And then you come back and you got to try and unravel the stuff that happens. And it's just hard to make progress. Well, we work for multiple hours in consecutive days, anywhere from three to five days, depending on the program that you choose. And we have a success rate that is second to none in the world. We've now we now have five locations in the United States and three in Canada. We've seen over 13000 couples from all over the world. And we have this incredible we have almost 100 therapists now working for us in these locations. So it's and our success rate has been consistent for virtually in a quarter century over 25 years. It's been now that we've been doing these. And so that's what we do. We meet consecutive because when you can work for a number of hours at a time and then we have breaks and we have meals and we put people up in these beautiful locations where they're being pampered by our team. And but it gives you the chance to really get to the heart of things, to really get to the root so that, you know, that that you can you can then be you can see what you're actually dealing with down deep and then find ways we give you these tools and strategies to actually make it different going forward. It's not just about, you know, good luck. I hope it works. We're giving you, you know, really well practiced and research tools that we know work. We were we use them ourselves that we don't teach theory. If we can't make this stuff work in our own marriages and our own lives, we don't teach it to anybody. So we know this stuff works and we've got documented evidence to the case. Yeah, so, so, so great. You know, somebody once said as a Christian educator, somebody once said, you know, give me two retreats a year and I'll do more and better Christian education than 52 Sunday schools. They weren't burning on Sunday school. They were just saying sometimes you can get more done in a retreat type setting. And this this is different than the kind of retreat you've been on on your church. But if you go, the intensive is great. You know, people come back and say, oh, my gosh, this was life changing. It was a breakthrough. What they also say is the food was great and we felt pampered. And I love that you said that because there's an element to that. That's that's important, too. They they meet some other people who are going through some of the same things. So anyway, I really I highly recommend it. We'll put it down also in our podcast notes and you can find that anywhere and and find out more about hope or so. I really challenge you if you're in a place where you feel stuck. And I mean, stuck, you know, take a look at that. Bob, our time went by so fast. Thank you so much. I mean, the book is called Nine Lies That Will Destroy Your Marriage. And then they build you back up with lots of lots of good stuff. And I just appreciate all that you do, who you are and just the thought leader that you are and really the human being, the man of authenticity, integrity that you are. Well, thank you. And I treasure our friendship, Jim, for all these years. And I mean, it's just it's a delight to do the show with you. Now, this, of course, is the YouTube channel because you can't see us instead. But, you know, we used to have here, I promise you, that we used to have more here. He has more here than we used to have here. Hey, before we go, let me just I want to tell you a story. I was thinking about this. And, you know, this is a story that I actually read in New Yorker magazine, which I don't subscribe to. And I don't really I don't know how I got this magazine article, but it was an amazing article. And it was a woman started by saying, I committed adultery. And she went on to say that, you know, she and her husband had two kids and they were busy, busy, busy and, you know, just chaotic. And they were strangers, as Bob said. You know, they were they we were we were literally in a business relationship. And there was a guy at work and he paid some attention to her. And, you know, it started innocently. And then there was an emotional affair turned into a physical affair. And she got caught. And there was a divorce. And she now takes us to her parents 50th wedding anniversary. And actually, her ex-husband is there with the kids. And the kids are sitting on grandma and grandpa's lap. And the ex-husband is there. And, you know, she's kind of at the at the back. She's just watching this observing. And by the way, the relationship hadn't worked. It would have been physical and in nature. And, you know, now she's alone. And she started thinking about her parents. And she said, you know, what my parents probably didn't have the physical ecstasy that I had had in this affair relationship. But they made it. What's the answer? And all of a sudden, it dawned on her as her kids were sitting on their lap and everybody's celebrating. She said, you know what? It's the P word perseverance. Now, I know that doesn't sound very romantic and it doesn't sound very spontaneous. But what they did is they persevered. They leaned into it. They learned about what lies and myths and how they could, you know, take those lies and myths and turn them into something beautiful and change their marriage and change the way that they went about things. And you know what? She looked at it and finally said, I should have persevered. And you know this, that if you have a troubled marriage and this is latest research, that 78 percent of people who say that they're in a troubled marriage, if they'll stay for five years, 78 percent say that their marriage is better off. Does it say it's perfect? No. But as Bob said at the beginning, you know, we're not meant to be totally happy in our marriage. We're not. He even used he and Greg used in their book, you know, the Westminster Confession, you know, that we're to enjoy God and serve him forever. And in doing that, then we come together. But in doing that, please know that there's lots of help for you. And at Homeward, we want to help you. What Bob is doing with focus on the family and with hope restored is incredible. And, you know, lean into it. There's help for you if there's any kind of an issue. And even I say this all the time, but communication, it's a learned trait. You can relearn how to communicate in a more effective way as a couple. It's just a matter of taking the time to do it in the middle of, you know, our busyness and chaos. We have to make this, you know, as a top priority. Sometimes I'll say, do your kids a favor and love your spouse. So, you know, please make sure to take some time and energy to, you know, work on your marriage on a regular basis, even if it's a weekly date night, even if it's, you know, just interfacing on a day to day basis for 10 minutes in the midst of it, that's going to help you, you know, get to a better place in your marriage. And I think that helps you get to a better place in your family. I think because Kathy and I worked on our marriage, we're in a better place with our family, with our parenting. It's not perfect, but it's it's better. And we've been at it for a long time, but we realize we have to make that a priority. So anyway, thanks, Bob. Again, thanks so much for being on. I appreciate you so much. It's a delight. And by the way, thanks again to our producer, Mike Segovia. Love this man, Lisbeth, who was a part of this podcast as well. And thank you for making this podcast possible. You can get to us. You can go to homeward.com and learn more about Homeward and all the great things going on at Homeward. Well, welcome to Homeward. I'm Jim Burns, and so happy you're here. We are going to have a great conversation today with Dr. Jessica Peck. More on that in a moment. So did you know that the word teenager actually is a new word? Well, it's not super new, but in 1942, it was the first time the word was ever used. It was in a magazine called Scientific American. Okay, 1942. I wasn't born then, but some people would think I was born then. But isn't that amazing that we actually didn't even have the word teenager until, well, 1942? And that's not that super long ago, maybe 80 years. And what's fascinating about it is in childhood, they know their place, their children, and so they have a place. Adulthood, once they kind of get through those emerging adult years, they have a place. You're an adult. And you're not supposed to act like an adult. Not everybody does, but you're an adult. But the teenage years, it's kind of a transition time. They're not a child, and sometimes their parents treat them like children. They're not adults, even though they sometimes want to act like adults or do adult things. And so it's a fascinating time. It's a time of identity. Any book on teenage years talks a lot about identity. It's a time of experimentation with behaviors. So that's why sometimes your preteen, all of a sudden you go, who is this person? And where did they come from? I mean, they're a stranger in the house. Or your teen starts doing some things and you don't know where that came from, right? And so fascinating enough, even their brain is still kind of growing until about age 24, 25 or so. And so it's a fascinating time. Some parents embrace it and love it. Some people don't. My background is that this was what I did. I was a youth pastor. I became a youth pastor when I was 18, and I love teenagers. I still, to be honest, just to reveal, I sit at the Burns Family Christmas party. I sit at the teen table, and I always have, my parents would say, why don't you come and sit with adults? I go, well, actually, they're a lot more fun, these teens, than you guys are. And so I always sit with them, and I love, love, love teens. And yet it's a tough time as well, where we're so, so fortunate to have Dr. Jessica Peck with us today. Peck is actually an amazing woman, and I was on her radio show, and I went, I've got to have her on this podcast, because I just loved, loved our conversation. She's the past president of the National Association of Nurse Practitioners. She's a clinical professor at Baylor University, but she's not going to sound all that academic here. Radio and podcast host, expert in teen health. She has four children, that three of them are teenagers, and one is, well, up there, but still maybe acting a little bit like a teenager sometimes. And here's the deal, she's married to a rocket scientist. That's amazing to me. Jessica, welcome to the broadcast. Thank you so much, Jim. It is such an honor to be here, and I so look forward to this conversation that we're going to have to give parents hope. Yeah, we're going to give hope, we're going to talk about teens, but first I got to ask you, I mean, hey, you're married to a rocket scientist. What is that like? Well, the jokes are endless, I can tell you that. And I'm married to a rocket scientist who is amused at the perception that I'm the smart one in the relationship when he is in fact a literal rocket scientist. So it's everything you would imagine. We live in Space City, we have lunch with astronauts. It's pretty amazing. Amazing. You know, we have a common friend, Brian, I just thought of this, and he actually introduced me to a scientist, I mean, to a to a astronaut. Shail Lundgren, I bet. It was pretty cool. And like I was starstruck, and I usually don't get like all that starstruck except for, you know, famous sports figures, but an astronaut, that was even a bigger deal. Our kids went to school together and every Friday he would broadcast from the space station into their classroom just to check in and see how things are doing. So amazing. Well, you you wrote an incredible book. It's called Behind Closed Doors. Okay. And I love this book. And then it says a guide to help parents and teens navigate through life's toughest issues. And you know, the job that you do, the work that you do, the calling that you have is to help parents and teens kind of navigate these tough times. The teenage years are unique, at least for me, all three of my daughters. I have only girls, so no hormones or drama, of course, in our life. Yeah. But you know, the drama and some of the teen drama started at about age 12. And you know, there you were. But you have a you have a story about your daughter throwing a book in the car. And I just I love that story. I laughed my head off, actually. So you did. Oh, I'm so glad that my pain gave you humor, Jim. This is great because my pain has purpose now. But you know, I had a very troubled relationship with my parents growing up that became increasingly more strained. And I felt that pressure. And here I was a pediatric nurse practitioner going to work every day, advising people on how to raise their kids. And at home, I felt like I was failing miserably. And my daughter and I fought all the time. We were in constant conflict. And one day we were driving down the road and she was in the backseat. We were having a recurrent argument and she threw a book at my head while I'm driving. Jim, I'm talking this was a four volume book. She was an avid reader. I almost was knocked out. I can laugh about it now. But you know, in the moment, it was devastating. And God just it just got got a hold of my heart there. And I knew I was going to need a new mindset, new skill set going forward, that what I was doing was not working. And it was going to take a combination of some of those things I'd learned as a professional. But also it was going to take an integration of my faith. And I had not yet released that to the Lord yet. I think you actually made all of us feel better because we've all had those stories. I have the Christy jumping out of the car at a stop sign because we were in an argument and then just taking off and I'm going, wait, now she's going to get beaten. My first thought was not about her. It was about Kathy, my wife, being mad at me for like allowing her to just be on the road someplace. You know, and I'm trying to find her and oh gosh, it was just one of those terrible stories. Now you said that you had a tougher childhood, but you also were kind of raised in a different season. I mean, there was sexual purity pledges. There was church camps. There was WWJD. What would Jesus do? Bracelets, things like that. How has the culture changed from the time when you were growing up compared to now as a mom of teens? It's complete opposite. So I did grow up in a Christian home and I was in church every time the doors were open. But that culture was very legalistic and it was very fear based. It was very do all of the right things and God won't be upset with you. And so I remember just living in constant fear and I made myself a slave to perfectionism and eventually I really feel like I became just unrelatable and unlikable, honestly, because I was so driven by that. And now we see a complete swing in the pendulum where anything goes. It's all about this is my truth. Don't say anything about my truth. And there is just all kinds of shades of gray. And I think that that is contributing to the anxiety that today's youth are feeling because nothing is certain. The goalpost is always moving. What is encouraged today will cancel you tomorrow. And without those principles that don't change, they have no security. And it's leading to a real crisis of mental health. No, that's such profound. You mentioned the word mental health and today's teens are struggling with mental health. We always blame the pandemic, but literally they were struggling before that as well. And if a teen is struggling with a mental health issue, a lot of times parents are in denial. But what can they do if they kind of wake up to the fact that, yeah, my teen is struggling in this area, maybe depression, anxiety, all kinds of things. They need to reach out for help early. You know, you think back when your child is small, when you have a baby and they're fussy in the night and maybe they're a little congested and you think, oh, maybe they have an ear infection. You don't think twice about picking up the phone to call for an appointment and say, I just want you to check it and make sure it's okay. And if I say as a pediatric provider, it's okay, they say, oh, good. And if I say it's not okay, they say, great, can we treat it early? But we have the opposite view of mental health. There is more fear of the social injury to occur than the threat of death and other physical harms that are associated with anxiety and depression that are staring us right in the face. So a lot of times parents ask me, what are those early signs? And I tell them, you know them, you see them, you know something is off and you may not be able to put it into words that it's a mental health issue, but you know that it's there. And so I really encourage parents to go to their primary health care provider and get some screening. And we are trained to be able to tell you on a spectrum of concern, whether this is something mild and for most anxiety and depression, kids need some sunshine, some exercise, better hydration, better nutrition, someone to talk to, puppy maybe. And that is going to fix a lot of those cases. But the thing parents need to know is the longer it goes on, the more it entrenches in your brain an unhealthy pathway. And those things become more entrenched over time. Very difficult to change if you don't start to address it until your mid-20s or 30s. Yeah. And I think a lot of times parents just are in denial. Or there's a diagnosis. They come to you. You say there is an issue, but they don't want to buy that because they don't want to face the fact that their kids are having a mental health crisis. We're more likely to accept a recommendation for something like a colonoscopy or an endoscopy or blood work or things that are invasive because part of it is we feel guilty. We feel like, should I have done something to prevent this? And that's not the case. Those things can happen. Sometimes they're just chemical imbalances in our brain. And sometimes kids just have a hard time to... My earphones won't stay in. But sometimes kids just have a hard time expressing what they're feeling. And it's not something that the parents need to feel guilty about, just like you didn't cause an ear infection. Having it early and addressing it from a family-based perspective, saying, hey, you're experiencing this. I'm coming alongside you. I'll support you through this. That's what kids need. You know what? I wish every parent in America could hear what you just said because again, it's so hard. You had a quote in your chapter on mental health, and I thought it was interesting. It was Martin Luther King Jr. and he said, you don't have to see the whole staircase. Just take the first step. What do you mean by that? Well, a lot of times when parents think mental health, their mind goes zero to 60. And all of a sudden they're in a mental health institution thinking their child's never going to get a job, never going to go to school, going to have to be on medication all of their whole life. But really what you have to do is just see this is a mental health issue. And again, some of those interventions, parents are so afraid of medication, they're afraid of stigma, but it's just acknowledging that there is an issue there and getting it evaluated, and what you're seeing is this mild, moderate or severe. And what is the next step from here? And again, most of those things are just looking at lifestyle. We know the things that help mental health the most are expressing intentional gratitude. So being grateful for things and that could be journaling about that, having spiritual practices as a family, like going to church together, praying together, reading your Bible together, having one person you can talk to. resilience is meaningful connection to an adult and as parents, we get the choice that that gets to be us. Most of the time kids do need more sunshine because they're inside on their screens all day every day playing video games or scrolling through their phone or doing something called bed rotting, which is their self care trend that they have where they stay in bed all day long scrolling through TikTok or other social media. Most of the time they do need better exercise, they do need better nutrition. We know those things impact mental health and they're very simple, but somehow not very easy to do. And really a lot of what you're saying is related to when kids are depressed. And this was interesting to me because I think I know this stuff and then I didn't realize this the leading disability among teens age 15 to 19. I read it in your book is depression. That's correct. Depression is debilitating the pain associated with depression is real. And I think when parents come in, when they come in to see me as a health care provider, they want an instant test. Like if you have a strep test, you know for sure it says strep or not strep and then you know the fix. And when you have a mental health diagnosis, parents feel this almost relief like, oh, so it's not a blood sugar issue. Oh, it's not cancer. It's not something really scary. Okay. Is this real? Is this just for attention? Like, what do I do with this? Can't you just tough it out? It's really hard because we don't understand the experience of being a teen today. We did not grow up at the speed of a smartphone. We did not grow up with cameras on us at every moment of our lives waiting to capture one mistake and not humiliate us like in front of the cafeteria where there's a few bullies or you know, just your school watching. We're talking about humiliation in front of millions. That is their worst nightmare and it can happen at any time. And we just don't understand we need to be more empathetic as parents in understanding what it's like to live in that kind of environment. You know, somebody recently told me that when it comes to social media that the average middle schooler actually is outside less than a prisoner. That's true. Nine hours a day. So when you're talking about even things like sunshine and you know, interaction, you know, people interaction, actually face to face interaction as opposed to just, you know, scrolling through, you know, YouTube or whatever. Tick tock, you may name it. You know, so this is one of the key issues of probably depression is what I hear. You used a phrase called Facebook depression. They could probably now today call it social media depression because Facebook's kind of going down when it comes to teens because we're on Facebook. So what is what is going on with the social media world? Well, that is a term that was coined actually by the American Academy of Pediatrics when we started to see this phenomenon and know that social media is definitely linked to anxiety and depression and particularly for young teenage girls. But we also see the problem with social media is that a kid's thumb moves faster than the prefrontal cortex in their brain. So sometimes when they make a poor decision, it's because they don't have time to think it through. Now, when you and I were growing up, Jim, if we were going to do something stupid in town, probably somebody was going to see us somewhere and call our mother, right, and let them know this is going down. I think somebody is up to no good or this needs to be stopped. But with a smartphone, with just one tap of a button, you can send a sex, you can send a text message that's threatening, that's bullying, that gets you canceled, that gets you suspended from school. And parents a lot of times immediately interpret this as a failure of morals. Oh my goodness, you've abandoned everything that we've taught you. And I really encourage parents to reframe it and think their brain, the kid's brain is not programmed to think about complex things like faith and gray areas and those areas of morality until the late teen years. Right now they're just having impulsive decision making. And so really it was a failure of their thumb and their brain and their prefrontal cortex more than it was a failure of their values. And when we encounter our kids, when we discover something or they disclose something to us, we immediately give them the lines that were handed to us in the parenting playbook. What were you thinking? And the truth is they weren't thinking. Their prefrontal cortex wasn't functioning to do that. So we need to meet them with more compassion and saying, I'm so sorry you experienced this. I know this is tough. I've got some questions. We'll have to have some conversations, but we will get through this together. We have got to give them a pathway back to grace. And we feel angry, but we're angry that something is threatened to derail their future. But they don't interpret that that way. They think we are angry with them. And this is the last thing I'll say about it, Jim, is that a common misconception is parents will tell me all the time, my kids don't want to talk to me. They don't care what I think about them. And that couldn't be further from the truth. The truth is kids care the most about what we say to them, which is why sometimes they hide things from us because they don't want to disappoint us. They don't want to hurt us. And they listen to everything that we say, especially what we say about them. That is so good. Honestly, I just said it the last time, but I want everybody to hear that. It's just so powerful and so important. I want to stick with this for just a moment. What can a parent do? And I appreciate in your book, you'll talk about something, but then you also give us some answers. You want to create a media safe home. I have no idea what to do. How do they begin the process of creating a home that is somewhat media safe? I don't think media is always safe. But what do we do? How do we do it? How can we start? Just some practical things. Sure. There's no way to protect our kids from every possible threat that can come to them on media. It's just not possible. So we have a defensive strategy. You can put filters in place. You can use monitoring software, but you have to have an offensive strategy. A lot of parents, they don't want to expose their children to things they haven't yet been exposed to. But I say in this day and age, we must expose them intentionally in a developmentally appropriate way that positions us as the expert. So if my child has access to screens as a practical tool, as you asked, for example, my daughter was in the fifth grade the first time she was exposed to pornography. And what I had told her was there are screens all around you and you are going to see people watching different things, some things that do not live up to the standards with which we see for media. If you ever see anything that is uncomfortable, that is confusing to you, that makes your body feel strange, or that you just don't know what it is, I want you to know. You can always come and talk to me about that. So sure enough, in the fifth grade, she came to talk to me about that. But Jim, the other thing that we have to do is it's very easy in this day and age to point our finger as parents at kids. They're always on their phones. They won't get off their phones. They're on social media all the time. But the truth is, Jim, they're modeling what they see. And we have to be responsible digital citizens if we want our kids to be. We justify our own use. I'll never forget this time my son was talking to me. I was talking to him kind of sanctimoniously about a popular video game. I had a patient come into my clinic, was nine years old, and physically assaulted his mother when she took away that gaming system. So I was lecturing him, and he said, you know, Mom, Facebook is just Fortnite for adults. And I thought, that's so true, because how many times are you at a school game or a function or some child's function, and all you see is the tops of parents' heads who are on their phone. Oh, but it's for work, or our social media is so much more sophisticated, or we're watching a game, and that's OK, because I pay all of the bills. So a lot of times when we see undesirable behavior in our kids, we have to hold up a mirror and think, where are they getting that from? There's something. It's not always our fault, but we have to start there and model that healthy behavior. No, I appreciate that. We have to value our own behavior. I was just speaking. One of our big seminars is called Creating a Media Safe Home. And we talk about anything from digital addiction to all kinds of stuff, but really practical, too. And I was giving a story. I was in Richmond, Virginia. I used to be a youth speaker, so I'd speak to kids. So they said, hey, Jim, on Friday night, you're coming in for the parent seminar. You're going to preach at our church, but could you speak to our 800 kids? I went, sure. So I said, how many of you believe it's possible to be addicted to social media? I'm talking to middle schoolers and high schoolers. Every hand went up. Honestly, there are 800 kids, and there were like 1,600 hands went up. I said, how many of you are addicted? And so I see two hands go down, and the rest all knew that they were addicted. So I'm talking, I'm doing this creative, I was telling that as a story. And then I said to the parents, by the way, how many of you think you're addicted? And it was so interesting because they looked like they were caught. They looked like they were junior highers caught doing something wrong. And there was a couple people put a hand. There was a husband who nabbed his wife with his elbow. And then she put her hand up, and pretty much they all put their hands up, too. And it was kind of like children see, children do. And we don't want to announce that, but that kind of is the case. Listen, we're going to take a real quick break. This is a great conversation, amazing conversation. But we'll take a quick break. We're talking to Dr. Jessica Peck. She's the author of Behind Closed Doors. All of the information on this book, and I am telling you, it's one of my favorite teen books now, so you need to go get this book. And we have all the information on our podcast info sheet or whatever that is called. But anyway, you can find it on the podcast. Anyway, take a look at it. When we come back, we're going to talk about some tough subjects, but very important subjects. Suicide prevention, vaping, is that a new thing? Well, cigarettes aren't. They're down, but vaping is up. Vaping, sex, sexting, even gender identity. And we'll come back also with some great hope, but we've got to be students of the culture. If you're a parent and you're not a student of their culture, then you're probably making a mistake because they're not entering your culture. They live in a different culture than you, and it's not all bad, but we've got to learn to kind of walk side by side with them. And so we'll take a quick break. We'll come right back. Well, welcome back. I'm Jim Burns. You're listening to Homeward, and I'm telling you, this is an incredible conversation. If you have a teen, of course you're right there with us. If you have a preteen, you're right there with us. You know what? Teen, they shape culture, all teens do. Teen-shaped culture, they influence culture. And so if you have older kids, if you have younger kids, I hope you're listening to this because this is very, very important. I want to move, Jessica, to a subject that nobody wants to talk about, but it's the subject of suicide. You know, I just looked up today, because I knew I was going to get to talk to you, you know, 20% of kids seriously consider suicide. I just look, that is the latest statistic that's out there right now. But also, so many kids struggle with suicidal thoughts and tendencies, and a lot of times parents are also in denial on that. Talk about what's going on when someone, and you had a phrase, and I wrote it down here. You say that we have to realize that someone you love may be more scared of living than they are of dying. Speak to that. That's absolutely true. So we see suicide as generally the second leading cause of death right now for teenagers, which is just an absolute tragedy. But there's so much stigma around the way that we talk about suicide. You think about when we hear about a suicide in the community, usually the first question that people ask is how did they do it? And then they want, their brain starts to click. They want to find that one thing that makes them different. It's a self-protection mechanism that's an unhealthy coping strategy, but it's not healthy. And it communicates to our kids. We're looking for that one thing. Oh, they had divorce. Oh, there were drugs involved. Oh, I would never do that. Oh, I would never go there. Okay, now therefore I am safe. And parents are really afraid to say this. And honestly, Jim, when I'm working in pediatrics, it's something I hardly ever saw when I first started working 25 years ago. But working in a pediatric community, a regional hospital, I saw it every single day. And usually the parents' greatest concern was that someone would find out. We cannot be afraid to say things because kids are living at the speed of a smartphone. What we're seeing, Jim, is phenomenon. Like I'll give you an example from a case that just happened not too long ago. A kid raised in church, very close to his family, good kid, but got involved with a girl online and started exchanging explicit images. Found out that was not a teenage girl. It was in fact an extortionist from another country who then said, I'm putting these photos everywhere unless you give me money. The team gave him money, it will never be enough money, and then thought could not bear to think of the shame of going ahead. And what we know from statistics is that about half of kids who make a decision for suicide will decide in 15 minutes or less. So we've got to talk about it before it happens. When someone brings up a thought, usually they will bring it up as kind of a joke to see, to float it, to see what will your response be. And it's always the answer to stop the conversation, full stop, and say, are you thinking about killing yourself? And that may sound so uncomfortable to a lot of parents, but you have to ask it boldly. And research shows you do not give them ideas that weren't there before. And in fact, asking saves lives. If the answer is yes, then your next question is, do you have a plan? If they have a plan, that's an emergent situation. You need to go immediately to the emergency room or if you have a connection to a mental health provider. If they say no, but I'm just thinking about it, that is an urgent situation where you need health care intervention. Yeah. No, it's so important. We used to say, if they have a time and a place and how they would do it, then they're lethal. You need to stop what you're doing. But I really appreciate you saying that because I've said with kids, again, somebody who's worked with kids for all these years, I would say sometimes, boy, that sounds really tough. I'm so sorry that he broke up with you that way and that all that crummy stuff happened. But they'd kind of shot out that they could kill themselves. Have you ever thought about killing yourself? That doesn't mean that they're going to go, oh, yeah, great, I'll go do that. It's just the opposite that you brought up that subject and it kind of calms it down, don't you think? It does. And it gives them an open door that, hey, I can talk to you about this. And we can talk about it before it gets to a point of crisis. Yeah, incredible. Here we now we move from suicide to vaping. We talk about gateway drugs and, of course, the gateway with teens would be beer and alcohol and then you move to nicotine, interestingly enough. But everybody's all excited because cigarette smoking is down with teens. I mean, it's way down. But vaping, and some parents think, well, it smells good. It can't be dangerous. You have a different thought on that. We do. We're talking about chemicals like nickel and formaldehyde. And actually, the vapor is an ultrafine particle that embeds itself in the lung. And you're right. It's great news that smoking is way down. But today's generation, they do not see vaping and smoking as the same thing. They think vaping is like vapor and it's like water. And the first time I ever encountered it was as a nursing instructor on a labor and delivery unit where one of my colleague's students was vaping at the desk. And she, the colleague said, why are you smoking in the hospital? And she said just as incredulously back, I'm not smoking. This is vaping. This is healthy. But we know that it is very dangerous for teens. It's also extremely addictive. There's a whole different conversation to be had about adults using it as a transition to stop smoking. But we see now even nicotine pouches that are superseding as laws are starting to restrict access to vaping. It just transitions. And now we see pouches where we see even they're called Zin and kids call themselves Zinfluencers and use them. They're very difficult to detect, but very highly addictive and very dangerous for developing teen brains. Yeah. And that's just great news for parents to hear because they may not think it's as tough, just like what you were talking about with that student. They honestly don't know the tough things that could be going on in their own body and the addiction issues and things like that. We don't have a whole lot of time, but we could talk for the entire session on what you wrote about with sexting, sexuality, gender identity. But this seems to be forever and ever. I'm sure they had, as a youth pastor, every May we talked about sex and dating because that's what you do. But it's more complicated today. And I sense that you felt that as you wrote the book Behind Closed Doors. It is more complicated. And we cannot, as adults in this generation's life, lead with lecturing. It doesn't work. If you want to leverage behavioral change, if you want to influence worldview, you have to start by viewing the world as our kids see it. And it is very complicated, very complex, very nuanced. And so what I teach parents to do in my book, there are three sections in each chapter. I take them behind the clinic door where I teach them all of the health impacts and then behind the home door where I teach them, here's how you talk about it along the road, just like we're instructed to do in Deuteronomy. And then behind the heart door, because Jim, it is heartbreaking for us as parents if we really see what is going on with our kids today, it is enough to make the strongest heart hurt. But there is spiritual care in there. This is a Jumanji style parenting adventure. I mean, you've got to roll up your sleeves. You've got to get your hands dirty and you have got to be willing to get your feelings hurt. As parents so many times today, I think we want that instant gratification. We want our kids to be a Chia pet. They come to us with a problem. We give them a little sunlight, a little water, and by the next day, everything's okay, right? We don't have tolerance for long term problems. But I think about the time I was in a pineapple field in Hawaii and I saw fields and fields of red dirt and learned it takes two years to grow a pineapple. But the workers are out there because they know that that plant will grow. And so for parents, I would give them the encouragement that planting and harvesting do not happen in the same season. And our kids need to see the confidence in our eyes that the seed that we have planted that a behavioral issue does not have to be generalized to a character trait and that we are there with them, supporting them, and we are in it with them building relationships. That is the way to influence them. Yeah. And when it comes to sex and sexuality, what you just said is so key because kids today are doing experimental behavior or they're not sure how they're identifying and things like that. And we have to understand that they shouldn't rush it. As parents, we shouldn't freak out either is what I hear you saying. That's exactly right. And I do see a lot of parental worry about especially things like gender identity. And I think, yes, that is a concern. But don't miss the forest for the trees when we look at all of the other threats that are facing them. And so we can't come from a place of fear. We can't have fearful parenting. We have to have faithful parenting, recognizing that our kids are not perfect because we are not perfect. God is the perfect father. And we are miserable failures as children. Our children do much better than that. But we have to give them grace and space for restoration and this culture that cancels them over the littlest things. But we can do that by building relationships. And that's what I hope to do through my book was to teach parents how to how did I become a teen whisperer? How did I talk to teens? Well, it's very simple. It's just four quick, easy steps. Listen with your face. Give them your full time and attention. Make the first words out of your question is, oh, offer open ended questions. Then validate their emotions. Say I can see this has you really upset. I can see this has you really anxious. I can see you're really depressed about this. They feel seen. And then E, explore next steps together and you build a relationship bridge with that communication so that they're more willing to invite your influence into their life. Wow. Listen, there's we couldn't go farther. This is I have done given my whole adult life and I'm kind of an old guy. I've given my whole adult life and I've never seen it articulated as well as this podcast. Thank you so much for who you are and the hope that you give us in the midst of some a lot of stuff we could have kept talking about. Amazing. Thank you. Well, thank you, Jim. If there is hope for me, listen, there is hope for anyone. I know what it's like to be that parent that wants to do so well, but feels like you're failing miserably. There is always hope. It is never too late to revisit and be intentional about your parenting relationship. God gives us new mercies every morning. That is so good. And honestly, a lot of hope in the book behind closed doors. And actually, if you go to the website, and we have this on our podcast sheet, but what Jessica Peck is doing, as you can tell, she knows her stuff. And if you've got a teen or a preteen, especially get the help you need. And by doing that today, you now have this kind of material that you can get. And it's just so great. Jessica, I appreciate you being on this podcast. I appreciate who you are and what you're talking on. You are singing the same song we sing at home. Thank you so much. It's a privilege to share the same heartbeat. It really is. And your listeners can also catch me on my radio show, the Dr. Nurse Mama Show. That's my professor brain, my hands on nursing experience, and my heart as a mom where we tackle these issues every single day. Fantastic. And we'll have that on our podcast sheet as well. Hey, before you go, let me just give you one thought. It's kind of a simple illustration, but it kind of helps some of you if you're saying what, who is the stranger in the home? And that happened for me. All three of my girls, around age 12, you know, like one time we were at a with Christy, my oldest, we were at Golden Spoon Yogurt. And she said, Dad, we can't we can't go here. It was a date. And I said, Well, we always go here. She goes, Well, there's boys in there, and I don't want them to be with you. See me with you. And then Becca did the same thing. I would never back. And then she did the same thing. And then Heidi had a similar experience at another time. So I went, they changed, right? Well, you know, this is an old illustration about kind of cats and dogs. But I love the illustration. And people write to me, I wrote a book called Understanding Your Teen, and people write to me about this illustration, because it kind of makes sense. So I'm a dog guy. I know there are some of you are cat people, but I still love you anyway. But you know, we've had three golden retrievers. I could accidentally kick Miko. That's our latest one in the head. Miko would still come up and love me and you know, whatever. And that's kind of the children. OK, they're like they're like golden retrievers. And then when they become teens, because there's so much going on on the inside, it could be hormones, it could be physiological issues. I mean, it could be what's going on in the culture. But I think many of them kind of morph into a cat. Now, I like cats. We had Milo, and Milo would sit on my lap and he would purr and look up at me and more or less look at me. And I thought he was saying I love you. And then all of a sudden, he would just kind of go because he was moody and he would run away and we wouldn't see him for two days. Well, I think part of the teen years is that they kind of morph into being cats. That doesn't mean that everything is bad. It just simply means that their their life is changing. They're finding their identity. Eric Erickson said that the primary task of the teenage years is to find a source of identity. And so that means this week they may be into some music. The next week they're not. They want to become a missionary and now they don't believe. Hang on, because again, eventually I believe that for most they're going to morph back to being dogs and things will be fine. It's terrible to say, you know, calling your kids dogs and cats. But I think you get the illustration. So hang on. Don't give up. Hang right with them. And you know what? Get the help that you need. And again, a great book like Behind Closed Doors is a great book. And if we can help you at Homeward, go to Homeward.com. We're glad to help. Also check out our sister podcast with Paige Clingham-Pill, Embracing Your Season, Parenting the Littles, Understanding Teeth. She's actually a teen therapist and she's amazing. And I love this podcast. She's way farther than me. I think I'm on just a few podcasts and she is already into the 20s. So as Homeward starts these new podcasts, we're really excited about it. So join us there. And again, my thanks to Jessica Peck, Dr. Nurse Mama is what she's often called. And wow, I'm blown away. She's awesome. Well, welcome to Homeward. I am Jim Burns and I am excited today. We're going to talk about marriage and you know, marriage is beautiful. Marriage is rewarding, but it's also sometimes really, really difficult. And Jodie Berndt is with us today. We're talking about trusting God with your most important relationship. Jodie is a speaker. She's an author. She's an author of the bestselling Praying the Scripture series. And Kathy and I actually went through her adult child one and it was awesome. And today we're talking about trusting God with your most important relationship, which we're talking about marriage. I love Jodie and I love Robbie, her husband. I had the privilege to go to Virginia Beach, Virginia, where they are from. And I did a marriage conference with them. And then I got preached at their church. We went out to dinner and, you know, they're a wonderful couple. I told Kathy when I came back that I want them to move to Southern California and be our best friends because they're just awesome. I mean, honestly, they're just they're just great. A stunning couple. I mean, both Jodie, if you're looking at the YouTube channel, you see Jodie's face already and I'll introduce her in a moment. But Robbie is stunning as well. And they're just there. The family is stunning. I saw a picture of them and their dog is stunning. So it's just the stunning family, I'm going to call them. And I even met a couple of grandkids who just melted my heart at church. So, Jodie, welcome to the broadcast. I'm so excited. Good golly, Jim. Thank you for that very gracious introduction. I don't think our dog has ever been part of an introduction. And she's going to be so happy. Thank you. Your dog was really cute. I saw the picture. I saw the picture this week. She's a sweetie. Yeah. You know, I was reading your book. It's called Praying the Scriptures for Your Marriage, Trusting God with Your Most Important Relationship. I'm holding it up for the YouTube channel. And I love the book and I was reading it on an airplane going to Wisconsin to speak this last weekend. And a woman said, is the book you're reading on praying and marriage? And I said, well, yes and no. I said, actually, you know, there's great things on prayer. There's great things on spiritual intimacy. But it's just a great marriage book, in my humble opinion. So I think you did a great job with the book. Oh, thank you so much. I really appreciate that, especially coming from you, because Robbie and I certainly appreciated the devotions in Closer. You know, that was just so doable for married couples and have loved your adult children book as well. We're doing life. It's it's, you know, keep your mouth shut. I'm remembering that. I'm still working on that. And I wrote the book. Yeah, are we both? You know, you quoted Tim Keller at the late Tim Keller, I should say, at the at the beginning of your book. And you and you said, Tim said marriage is glorious and hard. Yes, indeed. And I I felt like that was a theme within your book. And I want you to expand on that a little bit. Glorious, hard. Yeah, glorious, but hard is the truth. And, you know, Tim Keller writes that right in the introduction of his book, The Meaning of Marriage. And that's a book that several people gave our kids when they got engaged and then when they got married and I've given it to people. But really, when I get into it and start reading it about how, you know, marriage can really push all your buttons and God uses it to sharpen and test you and all these things, I'm thinking, wow, maybe I should give people like a crock pot or a set of silverware or something instead of this book. Maybe, you know, early on, you don't want to scare the precious, precious newly engaged or newly wed couple. But, you know, it's helpful to go in to marriage, recognizing, yes, it is glorious. And that's the punch line. It really is glorious. But when we go in thinking that, you know, he or she is going to make us happy, they will complete us, they will satisfy our deepest longings, you know, all of those things. We're in for a little bit of a rude awakening, I think, because we each have different personalities. You're taking two totally independent and, let's be honest, selfish people, and you're asking them to live together for better or for worse for the rest of their lives. And you're going to hit some bumps. Yeah, I really appreciate that. I appreciate the authenticity in this book that you wrote, because you're right about that. I even remember there was a woman who actually did what you did at CBN many years ago. She was writing for us and helping put together our radio broadcast years ago, and she got engaged and I was so excited for her. And so when I heard she got engaged, I see her the next day and I give her a hug and I go, oh, Kelly, I'm so excited for you. And she started crying and she goes, I'm so happy to hear that, Jim, because only people, every time I tell people I'm engaged, they just go, it's so hard. Yeah, yeah. No. And I love that you hugged her and were excited because my own adult daughters have said they've gotten that kind of reaction from some of their small group leaders and other young marrieds. They know about how hard it is. And, you know, yes, it is hard, but let's layer over that, that it is glorious. And it is worth every bit of the heart because the joy so outweighs it. I love what you just said. Now, you talked at the beginning of your book, you talked about an old biblical phrase. It's kind of in the maybe King James. It says leaving and cleaving. And your mom gave you some advice. And I loved your mom's advice. She kind of warned you that blending two different sets of expectations and decision making styles could be kind of tricky. Right. Right. And well, she said that, but she also said and, you know, she said it with a smile on her face, but I knew she was serious. She was like, you know, if anything, if you're tempted to leave, Robbie, you know, just know you're not welcome home. And I know that that's that sounds very harsh. And she said it smiling. But what she wanted me to hear was that I couldn't go running to my mama as wise and as wonderful as she is every time Robbie and I had a disagreement, bigger, little. She wanted me to know that I was on his team now and that I had to fight for my team, my new team. And so that was a great lesson to enter into marriage with, just to know that, OK, my parents are serious about leaving and cleaving. And that can be hard for parents. You know, you've got adult children as well. We it can be tricky to want to let our kids go when we've enjoyed having them in our homes and we've raised them. And suddenly they may be making choices that their spouse has influence in. And maybe we agree with them. Maybe we don't. And it can be hard sometimes to do that. Leaving for us as well as for the young. Sure. Sure. You know, it was really hard for me. I had a good relationship with my mom. I love my mom. And Kathy and I had a hard first year and we lived about nine miles away. And I would find myself we'd get in a little spatter, Kathy and I would. And I'd find a reason to go home and I'd open the refrigerator. And my mom would, you know, do she didn't. I wouldn't tell her that we had just done this. But actually, when we moved to New Jersey for me to go to grad school at Princeton, that changed us because that's when I think I did the leaving and cleaving. I don't think I did it. Yeah. Yeah. Sometimes that geographic move hard as it is, can be exactly what a marriage needs to make you hang on to your person. Yeah. Yeah. Now we're talking about, you know, in your this not just about in-laws, but you said kind of in that same section, you talked about honoring your in-laws and yet protecting your marriage. What did you mean by that? Well, this is a this is a important one, I think. And we've had to do that talk to our adult kids as they've gotten married because, you know, after God, your spouse has got to be your number one. And that can be really hard for a husband or a wife who comes into their marriage. And they've been used to the biblical admonition to honor your father and your mother. You know, they've grown up in these homes where their mom or their dad was the person that they wanted to honor, obey, please, whatever it is. And then suddenly there's another person who takes preeminence, who takes that position. And I think husbands have to be very careful that they are honoring their wife more than their mom, more than their dad. And same with wives. You know, God calls us to love and respect and even mutually submit to one another. And this is our new team that we're loving, respecting and mutually submitting to. So, yeah, I think that it can be your in-laws and I think it can be your own parents. But that's that's something I think every couple needs to deal with right away. It's interesting you said that. I was I was speaking this last weekend in another part of the country and a man came up to me. He said, I'm really frustrated with my wife. And through the process, I found out that they'd been married for 20 years. And I get that there's bumps along the road. And he said, she never left her house. She did, but she didn't. She's still daddy's girl. And whenever she has a need, she goes to mom and dad, not to me. And I thought, wow, 20 years in 20 years. Yeah. So what did you say? Well, I actually gave the same advice you gave and I just read your book. So I sounded pretty smart. But I said, you know, it's time to to leave. You know, and so then she of course, he brings her up to me, you know, the routine. And can you tell her what you just told me? And I said, well, sounds you know, I'm trying to back off. And I said, it sounds like, you know, there's some issues. She goes, I have great parents. And, you know, what am I supposed to just walk away from that? I said, no, no, no, no, no. However, the number one priority is is him. And and I could tell she didn't think he was as good as the mom and the dad. But nevertheless, that's what you have to do. You do have to leave. And those are the words of Jesus. You know, a man will leave his father and mother, be united to his wife, and the two will become one flesh. And when that happens, you know, the word united in Greek or in Aramaic, Jesus would have been speaking Aramaic probably is means bonded. And so you can't be bonded if you're also bonded to your mom and dad. And that's a hard thing. I've seen that, you know, as an parent and this is a whole another story. But as a parent of adult children, they were bonded to us. And now they need to leave. I mean, one of my daughters, I kind of had to help her. I kind of had to kick her out of the after marriage, kind of kick her out of the the depth of relationship because I wanted that relationship. I miss it. Sure. And I think I'm getting in the way because she goes about one of her her husband, you know, one of the things is he's kind of jealous of you, dad. Well, he needs to not be jealous. Yeah. He and me, I need to get I need to. Shove her out of the out of the nest. So she's. Yeah. Yeah. And for you to say, and my husband has had to do that as well. When our daughters will say, Dad, what do you think? And he'll have to say, well, what does your husband think? What does he say? Because they're so used to coming to him for advice. And you better believe he wants to give that advice. But just like you, he's got to remember that he's got a different role. That's a great we could have a whole show on that. I mean, that's amazing. I want to talk about kindness. You you said a sentence that rocked me and I loved it. Actually, you said kindness matters. But you said kindness is the most important predictor of satisfaction and stability in a marriage. Yes, it is. And I love that you ask that question right on top of talking about what the word unite, you know, bond means. And that's actually a stat from the Gottman Institute. You know, they are well-respected marriage and relationship experts. And what the Gottman say is that kindness is what glues couples together. And we may think that it's having good communication, sexual intimacy, no money problems, you know, great relationships with your in-laws, as we've been talking about. And all those things are important. But they say the number one predictor of a successful marriage is kindness. And when you drill down on that, because I first read that, I thought, oh, come on, really. But when you stack it up against scripture and what the Bible says, Philippians to, you know, consider one another above yourselves, put others interests ahead of your own. When you look at Ephesians five and Paul's writing about marriage and he says, walk in love, giving yourself up for each other the way Christ did for you over and over again in scripture, we are called to serve others, to be kind, to put others ahead of ourselves. And as we do that, and I love the folks at the National Marriage Institute, that's out of the University of Virginia, and which is my alma mater, which may explain why I love them. But but what the National Marriage Institute folks have discovered is that when we demonstrate these acts of kindness, whether it's something simple like, you know, getting your spouse a cup of coffee in the morning or getting up before your spouse to let the dog out so they can sleep in later or something much bigger, you know, going for Christmas to the family's house when you don't want to. But you know, it really matters to the spouse, whatever. These acts of kindness taken together create what they call an upward spiral of generosity. So that it begets itself, the kindness begets kindness and the generosity begets generosity. And so instead of moving in a downward spiral of you never do this and, you know, I deserve that, you're moving in an upward spiral of each being excited to love and serve and be kind to one another. It's a great a great reminder. I had a funny experience. Kathy and I did a marriage conference last month together and they interviewed us and they said, you know, what do you like about your wife? And so I said my thing and then they said, well, what do you you know, what do you like about Jim? And I thought she was going to say he's buff. Oh, my gosh, that head he has. She said he gets up in the morning before I do. And he opens the curtains, all the curtains, brings the sun in and he makes coffee. And I'm like, that's it. Oh, my gosh. Yes. That's it. That says love to a woman. Exactly. So I said I didn't. You know, I didn't really understand that that was a big deal to her. I never had. I never thought about it. I just, you know, I had been doing it. I then said she will have those curtains up every every for the rest of her life. She will have those curtains up and the coffee, if that's all I've got to do. And the crowd laughed. But it was interesting to me that she didn't talk about my spiritual nature. She didn't talk about, oh, the, you know, the dates we go on or any of the romance. She talked about opening curtains and doing that. And then later she said that folding clothes was another thing that she liked. You know, that I'm just beginning to get. Maybe her love life is the acts of service. It totally is acts of service. That's funny. So, you know, a mentor of mine one time taught me a very important truth. And I say this on the podcast a lot. Communication is a learned trait. And I thought you did a great job writing about communication. You said it involves two parts, talking and listening. Sometimes the people who are good at talking aren't good at listening and vice versa. Why don't you expand on that? Well, you know, think about I love that you say that it's a learned trait, because think about it. And I've got grandchildren now who are learning to speak. And it's so much fun to say, can you say, Dada? Or even can you say, please? Or we are taught to talk. You know, we are taught to speak. We're taught to form words, even communicating. We're taught to write a five paragraph essay to make our argument together. But we're never really taught to listen. You know, nobody, maybe our mom at the table says, no, don't interrupt or something. But we're not taught that the way we are taught to speak. And so I don't know about every couple, but for Robbie and me, that was really hard because we would in our early marriage and even into the later years. And we've been married now almost 40 years. He is a championship fixer. So when I come to him with any issue, he immediately wants to tell me the solution. And he's usually right. But a lot of times I just need to process it. I need to talk through it with him before he jumps in with the solution. Me, I am a championship interrupter. I always think what I have to say is interesting and important and will add to the conversation. And so I won't even let him get halfway finished before I say, oh, yeah, yeah. And that here's the blah, blah, blah. And so both of us had to kind of step back and realize we had to learn to listen. And sometimes that meant if it was an important conversation, it meant tabling it for the moment and saying, you know, this is important. Let's make a time when we can really talk about it and pay attention, because when the children are screaming or the dinner is boiling over or, you know, your in-laws have just arrived, that might not be the time to have it. So finding a good time. But then also being willing to give the other person space to express themselves, respecting their feelings. You know, I'm not as emotionally sensitive as Robbie is, so I have to let him express before I jump in. And then letting the conversation play out enough to where you can get to the end of it and say, OK, here's what I think I'm hearing you saying. And then yes or no. And is there anything that you want me to do about that? Or is there anything we should do about it? Because sometimes a response or a plan of action isn't required. Sometimes it's just as we know, I just needed to talk about it with my person. I need to process this. I need to go through it. I need to him. He or she can help me think through whatever it is that I'm wrestling with. And so maybe there is no action taken. So all of those things can come together. And you're right, there's a lot more to it than that. But just getting back to the idea that we're not taught to listen can be a light bulb for people because they can say, oh, maybe I need to work on that a little bit. So good. And really listening is the language of love. You know, when I'm in a relationship with my wife or anybody else and they're listening to me, I feel loved. Yes. And respected. I'm sure. Exactly. And so I think we do have to be careful. And a lot of us are those interrupter types. You know, I'll also, Cathy will start on something. And before she's done, I have I am I'm the interrupter and the list and the fixer. So, you know, I'm I'm in trouble here. You got you. And are you also the other bad habit, the explainer of, well, this is why it happened. You know, always trying to intellectualize it. I'm I do that in my head. There's a bubble going on at all times in my head. And that's that's in the head, but it usually doesn't come out. But I'll fix I'll try to fix I'll interrupt and fix her. Whatever her problem is like, I can do that right now. You know, she's talking about the light bulbs that are that busted because somebody we had light bulbs in the outside and some guy hit the thing and it busted. And she was telling me the whole she wouldn't tell me the whole story. But I just said, well, I can go out right now and just change the light bulbs. And she was like, well, let me tell you the story first. At the end, that's a good story. And I needed to go change the light bulbs. But the point was, you know, I I didn't listen to her. And I think that frustrated her. And that's a great that's a great learning lesson. Listen, we're going to take a real quick break. We'll be right back. We're talking with Jodie Bernt. We're talking about trusting God with your most important relationship, as you can tell, as I mentioned at the beginning, this is an incredible conversation. When we come back, we're going to talk about enjoying good sex and having fun together. And actually, even though many of our listeners and the people watching on YouTube are not empty nesters yet, many of you are. But we're going to talk about how do you get ready for that? Being married in the empty nest. It's kind of mind blowing. Anyway, her book is called Praying the Scriptures for Your Marriage. All of the information about Jodie and the book is in our show notes. And you can get all that information. And I really highly recommend it. I literally honestly just read this book this week and I had kind of skimmed it before. And then for this conversation we're going to have, I read it and I love it. So I really highly recommend it. We're going to take a quick break. We'll be right back. Hey, I'm Kelly Fellows. Did you know that Homeward also has resources for parents and married couples? You can find all those resources at our website, Homeward.com. Also check out our YouTube channel where we create a one minute video vitamins to encourage parents and to resource couples. Check those all out at YouTube forward slash Homeward and also our website, Homeward.com. Now let's get back to our podcast. Well, welcome back. I'm honored that you are listening or you're watching on the Homeward YouTube channel. Jodie Bernt is with us, as I said, and you can find all about her books and her incredible ministry at JodieBernt.com. Again, look at our show notes. We have more information on her. Maybe we can put that picture up with that cute dog of the stunning family. I'm not sure if that works in the show notes, but anyway, you have a chapter in your book called enjoying good sex. And as you know, the problem is everybody isn't enjoying good sex. And yet God created sex and God sees it as good in the context of marriage. And there's so much that's good about our sexuality. And it's another form of intimacy. I thought you did a great job in that chapter. What advice would you have for somebody who might not be experiencing all that they expected or hoped to experience when it came to physical intimacy? Yeah. Well, the first advice I'd have is you're not alone. So often I think we think, oh, is it just me? Everybody else is out there just having a time of their lives, you know? And yet it's such a common thing. Either physical problems as people are just thinking, oh, I'm going to, especially for those who have waited until marriage, you expect you've been tamping down these desires your whole life and then suddenly you're wed and you're expected to flip a switch and go. And that's harder for women sometimes than for men. And so I would say, first of all, just know that you're not alone. And there are a lot of resources out there that can help. I know Francie Winslow hosts a beautiful podcast. It's called Heaven in Your Home. And she deals with this kind of thing. But I think often even more than a physical barrier would be just the stress and the fatigue that we can feel. We all have busy lives and it might be a husband or a wife with pressures at work. It might be just the weariness of the home life. You know, you might have a bunch of little kids. One of the things that Francie, actually, I interviewed her for the book and I loved what she said because she really is intentional about lovemaking with her husband to the point that she will before, you know, they actually become intimate, she will just take time away to refresh herself to, you know, she hides away in her bathroom. She puts on some nice perfume, some lingerie she likes, and she really sort of mentally prepares so that she's not coming in, you know, fatigued and trying to just fit this in in the middle of the day. But she intentionally thinks about it and kind of gets herself in the mood, whatever that takes. And I know a lot of men, my husband included, I may be cooking the dinner. I'm standing over the skillet. And for whatever reason, that just makes him think, oh, I think it's time for intimacy. And, you know, husbands might have to learn that just coming up to your wife while she's stirring the spaghetti and giving her a hug and letting her know, you know, you're ready, it might be a little more helpful to come and whisper to her, I'll be ready later. And then maybe you do the dishes or something to help. Right. Haven't we laughed about that, Jim? You know, sometimes the most romantic words can be I'll do the dishes or I'll vacuum. I mean, I tell people all the time that, you know, that men should initiate sex by touch, touching the dishes, touching the vacuum, you know, touching the laundry. And because, you know, a woman and I'm glad you brought this up. You know, a woman, my experience, and now I'm speaking for all women, of course, being a male, but I honestly think that they need to have their world a little bit in place for this. And so what you said about your friend is that, you know, she's kind of taking some time to get ready. It's an important aspect that I think we miss. And I think, you know, here you are writing about, you know, praying the scriptures in your marriage, but it's a very spiritual act. It's beautiful. Very spiritual. I think Christians so often can think, oh, I have my Christian life and my sexual intimacy life and they're not they shouldn't be intertwined and nothing could be further from the truth. All we have to do is read Song of Solomon to realize how sexual, you know, this language is. And God intends intends for us to have pleasure with one another. So that's that's part of his design. I mean, he created it. And, you know, I call it a theology of healthy sexuality that God, you know, theology is study of God, sexuality, of course, is sexuality. But really, it's God's idea. He created our sexuality. And like you say, I think people who are raised in homes or in churches that said don't do it because it's dirty, rotten, horrible. So save that dirty, rotten, horrible thing until you're married and then turn on a dime. You know, they're still struggling with it. And I think it's it's important. What I did was what I thought in your chapter on it is I thought you you really made it beautiful and God honoring and, you know, to enjoy each other. Yeah, their intimacy. And that's absolutely. And you can even pray that it sounds kind of embarrassing to say. And I'm the biggest prude out there. But just to be able to invite God into that time to ask him to make it pleasurable, to help you all love and serve one another, even in that way. I think that's a prayer he delights to answer. So, so good. And, you know, I mean, I'm segueing a little bit, but you have a chapter on on having fun in your marriage. And you need to speak to that. You've got that book. Isn't it? Have serious fun. Is that? Yeah, I love that. I love your your opening statement. Marry someone who will make you laugh. What do you mean? Well, that was from that was some advice. Actually, one of my mentors gave her adult child as he was moving out into the getting serious realm with dating and things. And, you know, we're not all super funny, but we do want to delight in our spouse. And if you're not a funny person, maybe you're an appreciator of funny people. And so we want to be with somebody who does spark that joy. I mean, I love Psalm 16, where it says, you know, you will make known to me the path of life, fill me with joy in your presence. And there is a joy that happens when we come together into God's presence. But I think, too, we can get super practical. And at the end of each chapter, there are questions for reflection, for discussion. Hopefully the idea is that the husband and wife could do it together. But if your spouse isn't interested in doing it, you can pray through and think through these things on your own. But one of the things I encourage couples to do is talk about that. Say, what's one thing you might like to do for fun that would surprise me? Because we think we know our person, you know, Robbie never married, like I said, nearly 40 years. And yet he might come up with something that I've never thought he'd want to do. And that's that's just taking the moment to ask, what do you think is fun? Let's go do it. I think can be a game changer. I think a lot of times when you're dating, you're having fun and you're thinking you're doing whatever you're doing to have fun. And then you get married and, you know, life is serious and you're creating jobs and new babies and things like that. And you kind of forget the fun factor. And all of a sudden you look up and you go, I'm not fun anymore or we're not fun. And so I think we have to be proactive about. And you mentioned something in your book and you have at the end of every chapter. I love these kind of books and I love that you did this. You have to remember, reflect and respond. So what you're saying is you read the chapter and then it would be perfect if the couple could do it together. Some couples are not going to do that. Right. But but I hope a lot of them do. And so then there's a remember, reflect and respond. So you've given questions for them to kind of write down in the book that they can then communicate. You're just helping the communication process. They're now not just reading content, but they're actually interacting with the content. Right. Yes. Yes. Absolutely. And you don't even have to write it down in the book. You might just keep the book in your person on your date night. You just want to pull it out and just ask a couple of questions to your spouse, because honestly, not everybody's going to read the book. What I hope people will do. I started each chapter with a joke, thinking that might appeal to men and then ending each chapter with those questions and then with the specific prayers we can pray because you and I haven't gotten into this. But really the power that comes when we invite God into the mix through his word, claiming and praying those promises. You don't even have to read the chapter. You can just flip to the back and pick a few of those verses to pray. And that is powerful because prayer really does change things in our marriage. Let me let me move to that. I had it at the end, but I want to move right there because you brought it up. You know, spiritual intimacy, you know, praying together. So much even research, even secular research, says that couples who pray together stay together. I mean, I believe couples that pray together, stay together. Couples that play together stay together. But the prayer element is so good. And yet I think it's the least developed area of intimacy, even among Christians, is a spiritual. Sure. I mean, it's awkward. And Robbie and I were both believers. We are both believers. But yet we don't pray as much in our marriage as I would like us to. And I remember talking to him about it as I was beginning to write the book. And he said, honestly, I would like to pray more with you. But it's kind of awkward because we're two different people with two different prayer styles. And so we have to be intentional about coming together to do that. So I hope this book will be a tool for people to just pick up a few of those verses and pray them together. And you can do it in five minutes or you can do it in two minutes. Maybe people want to do it longer than that. But for those, those couples who might find it unfamiliar or awkward, I mean it as a tool. And the other thing we run into, too, and you know this, is couples where one spouse isn't a believer or maybe they're just not interested in that type of intimacy. You know, they may long for intimacy, but not want to go there in terms of actually praying together. And I would say to the couples like that, number one, no, you're never praying alone. The Holy Spirit is always praying with us. He's always praying for us. And secondly, Malachi 316 says that the Lord, those who loved the Lord or those who feared the Lord talked with each other and God listened and heard. And I think sometimes when we are talking with one another, I think God can be eavesdropping. And I think when we say to our spouse, what is something I could do this week to let you know you're loved? Or what is one thing I could do to support you? You know, what do you need? And when we get specific like that and we're talking with our spouse about how they would feel love, what they might need to feel supported, what we can do, God can take those conversations, I'm convinced, and even receive them as prayers. And we can take those conversations and we can go back into our own prayer closets, our own prayer journals, and revisit them and say, you know, my spouse told me they were worried about something this week at work and we can pray about that even if they haven't prayed about it with us. So I just think sometimes that how can I let you know you are loved type conversation can open the door to an intimacy that really might lead to prayer. That's really neat. I love how you said it. And really, one of the thoughts I had was, what do you do if one spouse wants that and the other spouse doesn't? But you kind of answered that question because I think it's so key that, you know, I don't think what we should do if, let's say our husband, the husband doesn't want to pray or doesn't feel comfortable praying. I don't think you preach and lecture and, you know, go all toxic on him. I think you simply have those kind of intimate conversations. Prayer is intimate and but also asking the questions. And what I love about your book and I love about you, because I think you do this so well, is you're handing them practical tools to develop intimacy. So it's not like some people just don't know how to do it. I mean, we just don't know how to be. You know, my dad was an alcoholic and he was a good man. He was a functioning alcoholic, but he was an alcoholic. So he didn't know how to do intimacy or connection. He he just wasn't good at it. He didn't have that quality. So I think there's a lot of people who are listening. A lot of people are watching on the YouTube channel who who honestly want that, but they don't know how to do it. I have a friend named Gary Rossburg. In fact, I'm going to have him on the podcast. He and I did Promise Keepers together for a number of years. And he wrote a book on on sexual intimacy. And he said the fourth sex need of a woman is spiritual intimacy. It's not even on the list for men. So I think sometimes a woman needs to understand that her her husband's just not thinking about it in that same way. Yeah. And you know, a lot of secular research, you mentioned that earlier, supports the fact that the spiritual intimacy leads to a greater sexual satisfaction. Yeah, totally. My wife was here. She when when we speak together on it, she that's what she says. I think she'll talk about our book closer and she'll say how how meaningful it was for her to have those 20 minutes with me. And I think people go and buy the book after she's not even trying to sell the book. She just goes, you know, spiritual intimacy. You know, if you're spiritually intimate, then you want more sexual intimacy. And then people are like, the guys are all like, OK, where do you where do you go? OK, where do I do it? Yeah. Yeah. Motives. But, you know, still the right thing. All right. We don't have a whole lot of time left. But I did kind of mention the idea of the empty nest. And, you know, the fascinating thing about emptiness is there's people here on our listening to us who are not empty nesters yet. But they and they aren't preparing. I'm finding a lot of people are just simply not preparing. But I have found that in the empty nest for Kathy and I and we literally were empty nest a lot later than others because our kids kept boomeranging back. I want to say it's because they liked us. Maybe we were just free. But you know, it's really been good for us. I mean, it's really been a neat thing. What would you say are some of the secrets to having a successful marriage either in the empty nest or as you prepare for the emptiness? Yeah, great question. And for those who aren't there yet, the preparing, I think, is really important because we have to think about our marriage as a message. You know, even if you've been married five years or you've been married 15 years and your house is filled with children, how you are living out your marriage is speaking to the watching world around you. And I think that leads into the empty nest years because you have to think about what kind of legacy do we want to live or leave. And so I think being intentional, they're kind of thinking about what are we saying? What message is our marriage giving? And then also realizing that things are going to change when you hit that empty nest. I think it catches a lot of people off guard because we can find ourselves. And Robbie and I went through this a little bit friendless because so many of our friends were the parents of our kids, friends or their teammates or schoolmates. And suddenly sports, all of that, the parents you see on the sidelines and the committees. And suddenly that's all changed. And, you know, when you hit the empty nest and people begin traveling, maybe they're visiting their grandkids, they're taking up golf, whatever it is, or they go back and take a second swing at the job and double down working extra hours because suddenly they can. People's times aren't as free. You know, people aren't as interacted socially and you got to be intentional. And I would say to somebody listening who's looking at that specter of loneliness or seeing the landscape change, be intentional about reaching out. We had one girlfriend do this where she was feeling the loneliness. And she said, I want to get a group together and we just want to go away to the beach. Will you come? And Robbie and I said, yes, we only it was four, five couples and we only knew one. But we thought, you know what, we're going to do this. We're going to expand our circle, broaden our horizons. And that group has continued to meet. We're now 15 years in and we're still getting together once a year because that was some really rich friendships that developed. So really great. Yeah. Kathy just I was away speaking. And so she got with her friends. They went to Phoenix, not too far for us because it's just a hop, skip and a jump on a flight. And they played all weekend this last weekend. She came back and I noticed her countenance was better. She'd been tired. Life was good. You know, she was away from me. I don't know. But she but it was really a neat thing. And it was because it was from a small group that we had been a part of a couple's group who that doesn't get together. But the women still do. And they only do it once a year. But she goes, we just picked up where we left off. One of the women live in Phoenix. And so she hosted them and they just had a great time. They had. And then I said, what did you do? And we we didn't matter. We played on for a little bit. I could never get what she did. You know, she they didn't do what I'd probably do. I'd want to go play or go do something. You know, these things they didn't they just interacted. And she came back so filled. So I love that. So we so much more we could talk about. But time is up. Thank you, Jodi, so much for. Thank you. Thank you for all you do. Well, you too. And it was so helpful. And you're such an amazing communicator. And tell that stunning husband of yours. I said hi. I'll do it. I'll do it. I think he is stunning. Anyway, he's he's a great family. Again, your book, the book is called Praying the Scriptures for Your Marriage, Trusting God with Your Most Important Relationship. And, you know, here's how I want to close. A lot of times I'll give some content, but this is what I want to say. Look, invest in your marriage. And one of the best things you could probably do, and you haven't heard me say this on the podcast yet, is one of the best things you could do is is read a marriage book. Why not this one? It's a great book called Praying the Scriptures for Your Marriage. And again, you get her personality. You just listen to the podcast and it's really helpful. It's really practical. So what if you invested to get even if you read it to each other? So, you know, Kathy sometimes has read a book to me while we were driving someplace and you know what? Then we have conversations and that's what you want to do. So have that conversation. Be intentional. I always tell people, read one marriage book a year. Read one parenting book a year. Even when you're older and you're in the empty nest or your kids or adults still keep doing that because, hey, family is is so key and important. Well, until next time, I'm Jim Burns and you've been listening to Homeward and I hope you share and subscribe to the podcast worldwide, any place. Let us know what you think. And you can also call the Homeward voice line 24 7 3 65. We're not going to answer. It's a recording. But you can leave a comment or you can leave a question for a future podcast. All that information is in the show notes, as well as all the information on Jodi. And until we talk again. Welcome to Homeward. I'm Jim Burns. And today we're talking about one of the most important subjects we can talk about. It's called Nurturing Your Child's Heart, Mind and Soul. And my guest is George Barna. And I am so happy to have him on our podcast today. He's written a great book called Raising Spiritual Champions. I actually read it this week and I love it. And by the way, this is his 60th book. I mean, just think about that for a moment. Many of us had trouble writing our, you know, papers in college or even in high school. And this is his 60th book. Wow. George has been named by numerous media outlets as one of the nation's most influential leaders. He graduated from Boston College, Rutgers University, and Dallas Baptist University is where he got his doctorate. George is the Director of Research at the Cultural Research Center at Arizona Christian University, a great school, by the way, among other leadership positions that he's involved in around the country. He and his wife, Nancy, have three daughters and three grandchildren. And here's something that I did not know about George. We talked about it before the podcast. He and Nancy were married at the iconic Princeton University Chapel in 1978. You know, it's iconic. I mean it. So when I was in grad school, I would go to that chapel sometimes if I just wanted to feel close to God. And honestly, I would sit there. I'd sit in the back. It's massive. And I would just be inspired. And then I realized he got married there. So he was like, must be really close to God. Many people say that George is often described as America's most quoted Christian leader. And I quote him all the time. And so it's just a pleasure to have you on the podcast, George. It's really an honor to have you on the podcast. Thanks for. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's just good to be with you. Yeah, thanks for having me. I appreciate it. On the on the Homeward YouTube channel, they can see your guitars in the back. So not only are you the research guru of Christianity, you also play a mean bass, I'm told. As long as I'm not a mean bassist, that's okay. That is that's a good point. Hey, talking about nurturing your child's heart, mind and soul. And again, you wrote this great book called Raising Spiritual Champions. I read it today. I'm kind of showing people the book. You reveal some amazing research about adults under 40 years of age. So your research says that two out of three or 67% say that they still these people are still trying to identify the meaning and purpose of their life. 22% claimed that life is sacred, only 22%. 54% admit that they often feel anxious and depressed and unsafe. So that those are your words. What does that say about this next generation of young adults? And then also, how does that relate to the same people raising spiritual champions as they become parents? Yeah, you know, the way that I've I've come to filter all the research and what's going on in ministry is by looking at worldview, because everybody has a worldview, all of the choices that we make are based on our worldview. And so as we look at the worldview of today's parenting generations, what we find is only 2% of them have a biblical worldview. Why does that matter? Because you can't give what you don't have. What you do is you reproduce who you are. And so what we have are a national group or segment of parents who are basically going to reproduce themselves, which means that we'll have a little bit of God, but we'll have a little bit of many other spiritual traditions as well, equally represented in most cases, as any kind of Christian beliefs or traditions or spiritual focus. So it's not a positive picture for the future. As we look at the trend lines in terms of worldview, what we see is that when I started measuring these things, Chuck Colson and I started looking at this back in the early 90s. And it led to him writing his book, How Now Shall We Live. And of course, I've done a lot of work on that consistently over the last 30 plus years. And what we find is that very slowly but consistently, the proportion of Americans who have a biblical worldview, which means simply that your core beliefs on which you make all your life decisions are coming from the Bible. They're based on biblical principles, as opposed to based on Marxist principles, postmodern principles, secular humanist principles, Eastern mystical principles, all the other options. You're turning to the Bible for your primary moral and spiritual guidance. Well, that number is consistently decreased. And so it's going to take a very intentional and consistent approach to turn that around. If we just keep doing what we've been doing, which is what we seem to keep doing, really what that means is that the Christian church is on the way out the door. I wrote a piece recently that was picked up by a lot of media where I talked about Christian invisibility. And the concept behind that was I was looking at people's circles of influence. Who influences them and who do they influence? And what I found is that increasingly there are no Christians involved in most circles of influence in America. What we tend to do is we gather together, we huddle together, and we circle our wagons and we talk to each other. We've got our own echo chamber and we cheer each other on, but we're not influencing the culture. The culture is influencing the church more than the church is influencing the culture. And that's so important. And guys like you and me, we might be getting older, but we've got to change that. At home, we're making a major move toward next generation parents. And as we do that, we have to deliver content differently. We have to talk about how we reach them differently. Similar topics, interestingly enough. But again, I love what you said. Now I'm going to take you back about 20 years. Okay. We've been friends for a long time. About 20 years ago, I was talking with you one time and you had mentioned that you had kind of had this aha because you were doing research then on biblical worldview, raising children. And your aha was that how important it was for parents to be the dominant discipler. And again, I'm just going, wow, George Barna is now singing our song. I mean, that's amazing. But talk about the aha because I read most of your books. And it seems to me that now it continues to be even a more major force than it was even when you got started. Well, it all comes back to what I was saying about worldview. Worldview is the center of everything. It's where you decide whether or not you're going to follow Jesus, whether or not you're going to believe the Bible, whether or not you're going to live your life as a Christian, all of that and more flows out of your worldview. Everybody has a worldview. What I began to realize 25 years ago or so was that a person's worldview begins forming at 15 to 18 months of age and is pretty much fully formed by the age of 13. Now, since then, I've been able to do a lot more research on all of this, including a longitudinal study where we track people over a few decades. And what we discovered is that most people die with the same worldview they had at the age of 13. It doesn't change much. Now, it does change in some people's lives. There is hope if somebody doesn't have a biblical worldview. Well, that was me. I wasn't raised in a church. At 13, I wasn't a Christian. So I became a Christian at 16. So, you know, there is hope. And I didn't become one until 24. So yeah, it can be done, but it's unusual. Typically, it takes a crisis in a person's life because that's what challenges you to rethink everything that you thought before. Do I understand this? Am I doing that right? Am I pointing myself in the right direction? It takes a crisis to kind of jog us loose from what we've already bought into and no longer think about. It's just part of our identity. Now, what's fascinating is, yeah, part of our identity. Did you want to go on or? I'll talk forever if you don't cut me off. Yes. No, you're doing great. At age 13. So I read that in your book. I circled it because I wrote a book a few years ago called Doing Life with Your Adult Children. Keep your mouth shut and welcome that out, which they don't need to read the book. That's just what you do. Keep your mouth shut and welcome that out. You've got three adult children. But what was, I would say the number one thing that people write to me about is my kids strayed. We raised our kids in the church. They were in children's ministry. They were in youth ministry. And at 13, they were, you know, followers of Christ, excited about camp, all this, but they left the church after high school. And it shocked this generation of parents that were kind of doing a lot of the things that you write about in your books or I write about in my books. What do you say to that parent who, you know, they have this foundation. Are they going to, are the kids going to come back? These adult kids, you know, what are you seeing in that place? Yeah, we don't see them come back very often unless there is somebody who that individual really trusts and they have a strong relationship with them where they get to spend a lot of time together. And it's through that kind of a relationship then that you can start chipping away and saying, you know, you don't even challenge them. You just ask them questions. It's a Socratic approach. You know, wow, I thought it was really interesting. I saw you do that. What made you do that? They explained that to me and just get them talking about their choices and, and eventually getting down to the point where they're having to identify what's the foundation of my choice. What's the truth on which that action was based? And then you get to talk about that truth and that action, those choices without having to tell them, well, that was stupid. You were wrong. Why didn't you turn to the Bible? Because then it's causing them to reflect on something that normally they wouldn't reflect on. We're a reactive nation. We're not a nation of thinkers. We don't like to reflect on anything. Number one, it takes time. Number two, sometimes it's painful. Number three, nobody else is doing it. And so, you know, we just respond in the moment, live in the moment. It's all about being in the moment and reacting as best you can based on what your foundation is. It takes that kind of a trust-based time soaked relationship to cause somebody to go back and rethink it. So can a person change? Yes, but it's not going to be easy and it's not going to happen overnight. No, it isn't. No, no. I get that. In fact, if it happens overnight, it's like there may be something wrong with they actually need to kind of go, probably come back into it a little slower. I was, I was at Forest Home last week. It's a Christian conference center in California. You'd know it. And I was talking with a young person who said they had walked from the church. They have little kids now. And that was a motivator because they'd had a good experience in church. They got mad at what the church was about and they got mad at the political stuff and, you know, kind of everybody gets put in with weird politics and weird, you know, things. And they said, but what they missed was community. And so they went to an alpha. Alpha is a great, you know, ministry out of England, which is here. And our, our church actually has an alpha. And they said they were able to talk through things and they found community with them in that group. And they, it was, they were drawn back, not just because of words, but they're also drawn back because of community. They said the greatest people we knew were Christians when we were growing up. And we walked away from really normal Christians instead of some of the wackadoos that they got all mad at. And I thought that was an interesting testimony. I want to go back to biblical worldview because again, reading your book on, on raising spiritual champions, everybody should read the book again, just to get a basic understanding of biblical worldview. And you said 2%. That's just remarkable. But when you start to teach your kids about a biblical worldview, obviously you have to live it, but what do you do practically to, to develop a biblical worldview in, in a family? What are you seeing that's working in your research and when, and in your experience? Yeah, there, there are several things that are critical. Maybe the most important of those is that you've got to be consistent. One of the most shocking things that came out of the research for the book, we did seven new research projects that the book is based on. And what one of those, we talk with kids, eight to 12 years old across the country, talk with them about a lot of things, but the thing that, that jumped out and slapped me in the face was when kids told us they don't trust their parents. And we said, well, wait a minute. I mean, you're living with them. Do you think they love you? Yeah, of course they love me. Then why don't you trust them? And in essence, what they told us was because I'm a kid, I'm trying to figure out who I am, who I want to be, how I'm going to get there, what my life is going to be like, what I need to learn, who I need to hang out with all these important things. And so I asked my parents about these things. I listened to their answers, but then I watched their life. And what I see is that they're doing things that are in opposition to what they told me I should be doing. I said, okay, well, so what? And they said, well, the way I interpret it is they're as confused about life as I am. So they don't have the answers either. So I've got to go someplace that has the answers. And I said, so what does that look like for you? And it confirms something we've been finding in our research now for the last 20 years, which is that the primary worldview developer of children in America are the media. And so we talked about that as well. Why do you go to the media? And they said, well, they always know the answer and they stick with it, their way of saying they're consistent. When they say something, then you see them do something that's in parallel with what they've taught. And I was thinking about that. It's so hard to be a parent because you're on display 24 seven, seven days a week, every week of the year, you know, for as long as the kids in the house. And with the media, it's so much easier. You have a television program. If I'm a writer for a television program, I only have to write 24 minutes of material. I only have to be consistent for 24 minutes. That's not that hard. You know, if I do a movie, they give me two years to come up with 90 minutes of material. Can I be consistent under those conditions? Sure can. You know, if I write a pop song that hits the top of the charts, four minutes, baby, that's all I got to fill, you know, and half of that's music. You know, so my lyrics are, you know, so it's so much easier through the media to be consistent. And that's one of the major reasons why the media are the ones that are raising our children. Yeah. You know, it's interesting you say that because I was talking with some people last night, I was speaking at an event and I was saying to them about media. I was saying, you can use media to teach them like saying, well, this isn't what we believe. This is what we believe, but you can use their influence by media. So, you know, here's what the media says, but you can't always trust. We have to teach our kids to not trust the media because it's amazing to me that my kids would, they would, and it might be their teacher. It might be something in the, it would be culture, just culture, not just media, but culture. And they'd go, well, that's what they say. And I will, well, how do you know they're right? And they go, well, that's, I saw it. I, it was on my iPhone. It was, you know, whatever. And I'm going, why would you think that has to be right? Cause they can spend 24 minutes, but they may not be right. And so I think we have to teach our kids, you know, whose voice are you going to listen to? I have a new book coming out in next month and I've never thought I was going to write another book for kids. And it's my, probably my last book for students and it's on sexual integrity. And one of my chapters is on, you know, are you going to listen to the, the culture voice, you know, on say things like gender, or are you going to listen to authority, you know, the Bible and because what's fascinating is, is God is not the great killjoy when it comes to that, but we listen to these cultural voices as if they are the truth. When we've had the truth, people who live by a biblical worldview for all these years, they've made good choices. And it's not like God's some angry God when it comes to sex, he created sex and sexuality. He created pleasure. He created all this stuff in the context of marriage, but it's fascinating me because this generation of kids and sometimes their parents are more influenced, like you say, by the culture. And so I think part of our job is teaching them to learn to discern, to become responsible thinkers so that they can have a biblical worldview. One of the things that we did with our girls when they were growing up, we, we built a movie room in our house, you know, the, you know, 10 foot by 10 foot screen, you know, the whole thing. And we put in the director's chairs, the big movie chairs, you know, cough. Yeah. And the idea was girls invite your friends over, watch movies here. Cause we want to know who their friends were. We wanted to keep an eye on what movies they were watching. And the other thing that we did was we sat in with them a bunch. We saw, I haven't seen this, but I'd love to see this. And we'd watch it. Now here's maybe where we went a bit astray. I had a habit of stopping a movie in the middle and say, Oh my gosh, did you hear what they just said? What do you think of that? You know, trying to get a dialogue going. And at first, you know, they go for it, but after a while it's like, can we get through the movie, please? You know, and after like three years of this, I noticed that our girls weren't inviting their friends over anymore. So what happened with the movie room? They said, dad, you ruined movies for us. We can't invite them over, but they got the point. They got the point. And so, you know, and your questions are still in their mind too. And they were embarrassed when they would say, Oh, well, I did see that movie with my friends. I know I shouldn't have. Well, how do you know that? You know, and then we go through it. So yeah, but it's really good. I mean, it's teaching them to learn to discern. I had that experience. I, and you know, you're doing a lot of work in Arizona and we were at my daughter, Heidi, who's now in her thirties, but she was 10 and she was the junior Olympics champion. So she was in the big arena there and she was practicing like crazy in Olympian gymnastics. So I took the two kids to a teen movie. So she was 10. That would put them at 12 and 14 and I didn't do any research on it. And it was just, it was gross. I mean, it wasn't like filthy. It was rated PG 13, but it was just gross. And I had two thoughts. One is my wife is going to kill me. And two, my kids are enjoying this movie way too much. And the humor was crazy. Right. So afterwards I take them out for ice cream and I have, I've written, I've practiced. I mean, I have like six questions. My kids still tease me about that, but I said, okay, so what did you think about that relationship? What do you think about this and that? They still tease me, but you know what? They still think about it. And now that they have kids, they're kind of more doing the kind of things that I was doing back then. But it's still, I mean, that was, that was what 24 years ago, and I'm still mocked for having that conversation. But you know what? That's a badge of courage, man, because it means he did your job. And yeah, yeah. Well, it was also trying to get Kathy when she heard what I, what was it was about. It was trying to get her to still like me, but yeah, it was, but, but you know, parents need to do the badge of courage thing and we need to do it from an, not a negative thing. I love what Francis Schaeffer years ago, the great thinker said, every generation we need to re communicate the gospel. The gospel is the same, but we need to learn how to re communicate the gospel when it comes to raising spiritual champions. We don't have a chance if we don't help our kids understand how to look at the grid of being a Christ follower through a biblical worldview. So I love, I'm, I'm converted. I mean, when I read your book, I went, oh, way to go, George. I mean, that's great. Hey, we're going to take a quick break. We'll be right back. George Barnett is with us today. You can tell I am so happy about that. We're talking about nurturing your child's heart, mind and soul. His book is called raising spiritual champions. Go out and get it. I just want you to all go out and get it. Uh, the information about George, the book, all his resources and show are in the show notes and we'll come back in just a moment. Hey, I'm Kelly fellows. Did you know that homework also has resources for parents and married couples. You can find all those resources at our website, homeward.com. Also check out our YouTube channel where we create a one minute video vitamins to encourage parents and to resource couples. Check those all out at youtube forward slash homework and also our website homeward.com. Now let's get back to our podcast. Welcome back. I am so happy you are listening to this podcast today or watching it on the homeward YouTube channel. Um, you get to look at, uh, George Barna and, uh, my, uh, my face. Well, actually maybe you should just stick with the podcast and not watch the YouTube channel. But, uh, I always find, by the way, people write us and say that they're really enjoying the, the YouTube channel because they kind of see us, you know, interacting. And so that's a cool thing to do. And I can't think of a better conversation than nurturing your child's heart, mind and soul. Every person who's listening to this podcast wants to nurture their child's heart, mind and soul and a raising spiritual champions. The book again, just plug, plug, plug on this and I, I don't have to, I'm not paid by this. I just want you to read it because it's going to help you nurture your child's heart, mind and soul. And, uh, I appreciate you being on the, uh, listening to the podcast. I so appreciate having George here. Uh, George, what do you say to the parent who is, is motivated to raise a spiritual champion, but they never had their own parents ever do that. I mean, in many ways that would be you and me because our parents weren't doing that. But what do you say to them when they say, I don't even know where to start. Yeah. There are two things I say. One is you can never go wrong. If you can find a spiritual mentor, a coach, somebody who's going to come alongside you and you guys just hang out, you talk about life, you do life, you know, you're living it together and you're growing through that. The second thing I say is, and remember with your kids, they don't know if you know something or not. Therefore you only have to be about 10 seconds ahead of them and you'll be okay. And so if you want to be 10 seconds ahead of them, start with what I found statistically to be a phenomenal foundation for building your own biblical worldview. And that's this thing I talk about in the book called the seven cornerstones of a biblical world. My next. Yeah. Yeah. Go with those talk. I don't know what we can get into all seven, but kind of give us an overview of what these cornerstones are and then the people can go to the book. I mean, it's Sunday school 101. I discovered it running through the statistics at one or two o'clock in the morning. I'm sitting here trying to figure stuff out and I found, wow, if you believe all seven of these, not just believe it, but you live them, you own them, they're part of who you are. They're your identity. You have an 83% probability of developing a biblical worldview. This is in a culture where only 4% of all adults, only 2% of all current parents have a biblical worldview, 83% probability. You reject even one of those seven beliefs as part of your lifestyle. It drops to a 2% probability. That's how important these are. I don't know if I've ever seen a correlation quite like that. So I mean, it's just things about understanding that God exists in his very nature. It's things about realizing that when we're born, we're born into sin. That's our natural inclination. It's not to be good people. Most Americans say, well, people are good, basically good. No, they're not. The scriptures teach that. I think the model of humanity shows that. Then talking about what do you do with that sin nature? How do you handle that? And so that's part of the seven cornerstones. And then it talks about truth and some elements related to truth. It talks about elements related to success and purpose. These are very basic things. Every human being has to really come up with the answers to these things pretty early in life. And that's part of the challenge is that we come up with those answers early before we know what we're doing. We emulate people who are modeling a lifestyle that may be appealing to us, but it's not healthy for us. Spiritually healthy. And so we get into a rut. We get into bad practices. The seven cornerstones can snap us out of it if we buy into it. Right, right. We're going to put those seven cornerstones on the show notes so you can see them. When I read those, George, what I thought about was that's the foundation for a biblical worldview. And Jesus gave at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, he gave an incredible illustration, do you build your house on the rock or on the sand? The rain's going to come, so tough stuff's going to happen. But if you build your house on those, you know, all cornerstones, and I love that they're all cornerstones. I don't know how that works in the building industry, but those become the rock. And from there, then we move on to all the other things. I mean, it could be discipline. It could be getting your homework done. It could be so many different other things, but the cornerstones become that foundation. And what I'm finding is a lot of families do fail at that because they're building their, well, they're trying to build their house on sand. And what you said so eloquently earlier was that when it comes to culture and when it comes to all the things that they're being thrown out in media, you know, that's kind of sand. Even, you know, those people are articulate, you said that, but they also change their mind. I mean, if you look in past history, when it comes to morals and values and things like that, there were some pretty people now who are quite liberal who weren't so liberal 10 years ago or 20 years ago. So they were shouting something different. And we're basing some information that's not really well researched. If you take living together, you know, in 1975, you weren't married at the Princeton Chapel yet, but you were getting closer. If somebody lived, 75% of the people said that they would live with someone or they would not live with someone before instead of marriage. Today, that's the opposite. I just read that statistic. And I think that's really interesting research because the secular world, that's secular research, but they don't share that one. And then it says, if they do, then they have a greater chance of divorce, a greater chance of adultery. That makes sense. A greater chance of less sexual satisfaction. Again, we're not turning this into the Jim and George sex talk, but I'm just saying we can't believe everything that comes out with culture today. But we can't be the angry Christians who are just being mean-spirited to everybody either because that's not going to work. And that's why I think it's so helpful for Christians to be well versed, not just in the biblical worldview, but to know what the competing worldviews are so that you can recognize them when they're coming at you. Because that's what's been happening in our culture is we've switched from maybe a dominant secular humanism culture to a dominant postmodern culture. Now we're switching from a dominant postmodern culture to a dominant Marxist culture. And with each of those, they have different kinds of twists and nuances which become culturally appropriate, but they're not biblically appropriate. But do we know that? Do we know why they're not biblically appropriate? Can we speak to those issues? So this is part of the challenge to us as parents is to know that our kids are being raised in the schools and in the media and on their ball teams and elsewhere by Marxist, by postmodernist, by secular humanist, by mystics, all these different things, animists and whatnot. Can we speak to those issues with our kids or do we just say, well, the Bible doesn't believe that, so we don't believe it. But why? No, no. And that's not worked. That hasn't worked. We've tried that. And that doesn't work. We need to help them to learn to critically think through that process. You're being a prophet here. You're really prophetic on this. I want to talk about research because you are the research guru here. How do you measure something like spiritual growth and development? It seems like that's a hard way to measure because you can't just do it with your mind because I can say something in my mind, but it hasn't translated to my heart. So how do you measure it? Yeah. Accountability is a key issue where you've got a close enough relationship with somebody that first of all, you give them the privilege of asking you tough questions anytime because you care about who you are spiritually. If you care, you open yourself up, make yourself vulnerable. That's important to do. Do it with someone you trust, someone who's as mature or more mature spiritually than you so that they can recognize things. They know the right questions to ask and they're not afraid about it. The other thing too is conversations with people, having those kinds of conversations and thinking about the conversation as what did I say to that person? Why did I say that? How are they going to take that? And always thinking about is that how Jesus would have discipled that person? Because if you have a biblical worldview, that's the thing. We do what we believe. That's why your worldview is so important. We think of it as just beliefs. No worldview is actually beliefs and behavior, but the beliefs are important because you do what you believe. So you want to think like Jesus so that you can act like Jesus. And if you've got that biblical worldview and therefore you're trying to act like Jesus, you're a disciple of Jesus. You want to live like him. And so at all times as a discipler, who makes disciples? The only people that can make disciples aren't disciples. So we've got a huge responsibility, but we've also got to be challenging ourselves to be thinking about after I have that conversation with someone, how did I do? Did I represent Christ well? Did I display biblical virtue in a practical sense? Or will they go away confused or maybe turned off? So always looking at myself through that kind of lens of am I representing Christ well? That is so great. And again, we're out of time. Wow, I did time fly by. Thank you for your great insight. Thank you for being all these years a man of integrity and standing with the biblical worldview and continuing to teach us how to to live our lives to be effective, you know, disciplers of our kids as well as just disciples. Thank you so much for who you are and what you do. Well, thanks. You know, I mean, we're all sinners. We're all imperfect. I'm learning. We're all trying to grow. I just want to honor Christ. And, you know, yeah, well, you've you've continued to do that so well. I appreciate it. So thanks. Yeah, great to be with you. Thank you. Yeah, honestly, George Barna, one of my honestly heroes. I just love and adore this man. And I've learned so much from reading. I tell people read one parenting book a year, read one marriage book a year, but read one George Barna book a year. You'd learn so much because he takes research and then he applies it to Christian values. You can see how good this has been. Hey, listen, right before we go, I want to talk a little bit about what George and I were talking about. I can't I cannot agree more with George, but I want to talk just for a moment about discipleship and leadership beginning in the home. I think we made the mistake somewhere along the line that we thought it was going to be through children's ministry and youth ministry. You know that I have a youth ministry background. I love children's ministry. I speak at those events, but it's they're not that they aren't the people who should take the lead. We've got to take the lead. We have more hours with our kids. We have more influence and impact with our kids. And research again shows that, you know, parents impact even my parents who weren't in the church. They impacted me spiritually. You know, George and I were talking about that. So I want you to leave this with three things. One is lead with integrity. The Bible says whoever walks in integrity walks securely. And I'm convinced that if you live with integrity, then you will have kids who will also feel secure because of your integrity. And that's a part of that biblical worldview we were talking about. Also lead with margin. Look at, you know, busy people are often broken people, busy families are broken families sometimes. Busy marriages are mediocre at best. So lead with margin. Have enough margin in your family context and in your own life so that you can not make poor choices because of your busyness. Somebody once said to me, in fact, actually I was supposed to be at the Princeton Chapel where he got married. And for graduation, I didn't stay because I wanted to get home and go back to youth ministry. And a friend of mine wrote a note and he said, if the devil can't make you bad, he'll make you busy. Missed you at the graduation. And, you know, that was prophetic for me. I'm not going to be in the arms of another woman. I'm not going to embezzle money, but I'm going to be so busy doing quote unquote important things that I'm going to miss the most important. I have to ask myself the question, am I giving my family only my emotional scraps? We don't do well energizing our family spiritual life if we're giving our family emotional scraps. And then lastly, lead. Notice I say the word lead. That's what we do. We disciple our kids and we disciple our families by leading. Lead with the eternal perspective in mind. Okay. Be intentional about discipleship, but we're not leading just to get through Thursday, which we all do as parents. Oh, it's Thursday. We're done with it. Oh, we've got to start again on Friday, but lead from the eternal perspective. And when you lead and parent with the eternal perspective, you're going to discipline differently. You're going to deal with media differently. You're going to deal with sexuality differently. You're going to deal with school differently because again, when you lead from the eternal perspective, you're bringing this world view to them. And they're not only seeing it in your life, but also you're putting energy into that. So anyway, just some thoughts right before we go. What a joy to have George on the podcast today. Amazing podcast coming up. So please don't, don't, you know, not listen if you can. The beautiful thing about a podcast, you can listen to it at any time. And also, you know, we've got our sister podcast with Paige Klingon-Pill embracing your season, parenting the littles and understanding the teens. And she is crushing it at all times. And I just really want to encourage you to take a listen to Paige, if you haven't heard that yet. And I'm learning from Paige in beautiful ways. So until next time, I'm Jim Burns and you are listening or watching Homework. Welcome to Homeward, I'm Jim Burns. The topic of sexuality is so often awkward and, well, yeah, confusing. Kids are receiving so many mixed messages and too often, you know what one of those mixed messages are from home? Simply silence. Well, interestingly enough, the culture isn't silent. And our guest today believes that kids are being sexually discipled by the world. I believe that too. No doubt it's time we rethink how we teach sex education to our kids. I'm one of those people who thinks we should have a hundred one minute conversations rather than just one 100 minute conversation, if you know what I mean. So honored today to have Dr. Julie Slattery with us. I'm actually really smiling because I think this is such a great conversation we're going to have. I look at Julie as no doubt one of the leading Christian thought leaders on the subject of sex and sexuality. She's a clinical psychologist. She's the author of some great books. She's a speaker, a recognized expert in the areas of biblical truth and sexuality. She's been married since 1994. She has three sons and I have the deepest respect for her. And today we're talking about rethinking sexuality. That's the name of her book. And I love the subtitle, God's Design and Why It Matters. All the information on this book, as well as her ministry and all the things that she is about is on our podcast notes. And by the way, this is the third in our series on sexual integrity. And I really think we've saved the best to last. Julie, thank you so much for being on the podcast. Oh, thanks for the invitation, Jim. What an honor to be with you and thank you for your kind words. Yeah. Well, it's great to be with you. And honestly, it's so good. So you have three sons and we were talking about this right before the podcast. So you get introduced as an expert on sex. And you know, I'm guessing your three sons, when they were younger, even especially more, just kind of rolled their eyes. How did they react to that? And I'm like, Mom, who talks on this subject? Yeah. Well, I started the ministry, Authentic Inimacy, where this became my full time ministry when they were in the tween and teen years. So that was painful for them, especially if they'd have like their friends, parents come up and say something or their teachers. But now they're at the place where they'll actually be like, Mom, we're proud of you. We understand why you do what you do, but it's not always been easy for them. That's right. I have three girls and I remember one time taking my middle daughter to something I was speaking on to kids on sex. And she was like, she just I watched her just slink. She didn't know what I was talking about. That was a mistake. And she just kept slinking. She was coming to go to the to hear the message partly, but to eat Mexican food afterwards, which is her meal. She was like, Dad, I can't believe that you talk like that to kids and, you know, blah, blah, blah. I know. Sex, as we talk about it, I mean, oh my gosh, it's such a beautiful thing. And it's a wonderful creation by God. And yet Christians sometimes get a really bad rap because, well, we present the topic and we haven't always done a good job of this. I mean, you say this in your book. I mean, we need to kind of rethink how we do this. Francis Schaeffer once said, and he was talking about the gospel, but he said, for every generation, we must rethink how we communicate the gospel to make it relevant. We don't change the gospel, he said, but we change the way we communicate it to this generation. I'm kind of thinking that's exactly what you're doing as we talk about rethinking sexuality. Yeah. Yeah, I think it's rethinking our entire approach, Jim. We have kind of adopted a heritage of the concept that Christians don't talk openly about sexuality. They're kind of squeamish about it. And so people think, well, then God must not talk about it much either. So we live in a culture today where this is not only the issue of the day, but it also impacts the gospel. So when I talk to pastors or apologists, they'll say, you can't talk about God anymore without the first questions being around sexuality, the first objections of how could a loving God say that sex is not okay between two men or that sex is supposed to be in marriage. And so this is not just a side discipleship issue anymore. It is actually part of the message of God's creation and how we think differently than the culture thinks. Yeah. And we can't present it any more mean-spirited. You don't. And we really can't because, again, it's so key and critical. And I was just reading a book on deconstruction of kids who are leaving the faith and then even young adults who are. And one of the main reasons had nothing to do with Jesus. It had to do with sexuality. Right. Yeah. So I appreciate you bringing that up. Interestingly enough, you made an incredible comment in your book. You said, our silence on sex reinforces the belief that sexuality is dirty and ungodly. I want you to unpack that for a moment. Yeah. I think when you, for decades, go to church and anytime a sexual topic comes up, everybody gets awkward or all of a sudden it becomes very high level instead of addressing the real question you might have about, I can't stop looking at pornography or is masturbation wrong or my husband and I have all kinds of conflict around sex. When you bring those topics up, you dare to, and the room gets weird and silent, then you immediately feel a sense of shame, not even just for having that question, but for bringing it out in the open. And if that's been your learned experience, which for most people in faith families, that has been their experience of sexuality, then the whole topic now is shrouded with a sense of we don't talk about that. And that just makes the shame pervasive and feel like you're the only, I must be the only one who's asking this question. I must be the only one with this struggle. And so that just is shame upon shame. Yeah. And when everybody, when we think everybody else maybe has it together when they don't. So it's better to have an open conversation, a dialogue. You can have a God honoring conversation about sexuality. He's the creator. He's the master designer. And yet you're right, we do get so awkward. I have an experience where I speak a lot to parents on teaching sexual integrity and even have a book now that's just come out to kids on a student's guide to sexual integrity. What's interesting is I'll say to parents, how many of you received good, positive, healthy sex education when you were growing up? You know, I can be in a room of 400 and four people raised their hand. I mean, I've had it. We were talking about Windshade before I was at a conference, marriage conference, and I asked how many and one person raised her hand at that. You know, that place, it's a wonderful conference center. One person said that they've received good, healthy sex and sexuality. So guess what we talked about when we talked on marriage about intimacy. These people were still struggling to even have conversations with their spouse about it. What you're saying is, no, open up the dialogue, bring it up. We shouldn't be, we shouldn't, we have to unshame the conversation. Yeah, I think it was Howard Hendricks who said we should not be ashamed to talk about what God was not ashamed to create. Ooh, love that. And when we read the scripture, Old Testament and New Testament, gosh, certainly isn't shy and not just talking about the beauty of sexuality and our bodies and erotic love, but also the intricacies of the many ways it can go wrong from incest to pornography to rape to prostitution. Like we see all of that in the scriptures and we see many of our heroes of the faith and fathers of faith struggling with these things. So I, you know, people often ask like, when did we stop talking about this? I know even if you look at some ancient Jewish traditions and Catholic traditions, they've done a much better job historically of tackling sexuality than I think Protestants have in general. But this is not, the silence is not biblical and I think we need to be reminded of that. It's not good. If a pope in the past wrote a book on a theology of your body and sexuality, well, we need to be doing that too. You're our poppet for this. I appreciate it so much. You put two words together that I have never heard in the same sentence and I just got to say, you use a phrase sexual discipleship and I love it, but there's a negative side to it and a positive side to it. The negative side, which you have said is that, you know, the world is sexually discipling our children and us, you know, but there's also a positive side. I want you to speak to both sides. Yeah. When I say that term, most people are like, what in the world do you mean by that? And they get sort of, I think creeped out by it, but we're very comfortable with the term sex education. So education is, I'm going to sit somebody down, I'm going to take them through a course of study. They have to learn this information. Discipleship is the lifelong pursuit of how we live, how we think, how we respond to situations. Education is what to think about sex. Discipleship is how to think about sex. And so at its best in the past, I think churches and Christian families have done some education, but the culture disciples and discipleship will always win against education. You know, that's a great comment. And I think sometimes what in the field that I work in, in family ministry, you know, we talk about parents being the primary disciplers of their kids and that's foreign and it's kind of coming around. It's better now. We're seeing that in churches, but we also have to be the disciplers of our kids when it comes to sex and sexuality. And I don't know that anybody feels totally equipped on this thing. And again, part of it was because it was awkward for them or they didn't hear it from their parents so they didn't have role models. What do you suggest to the parent who says, you know what, wow, listening to this conversation with Julie, I need to be more engaged with my own kids. I need to move from, you know, doing sex education, maybe, maybe they're not, to really discipling them. What do you suggest would be the healthy ways to do that? Yeah, well, first of all, discipleship is the overflow of your own life. You can't pass on what you don't possess. And so for the vast majority of Christian parents, they've never been discipled in their sexuality and they're struggling with their own questions, their own shame, their own brokenness. So I really feel like a lot of us, the first thing we need to do is do a deep dive into what we missed growing up, which is not just what, again, does the Bible say you should do with your sexuality, but why does it matter to God? Why is sex so shameful? Why is it so intricate to who we are? And so a lot of our ministry is actually sexually discipling the parents so that now it can come as an overflow of what God is doing in their lives. And yeah, and it's just, you think about it as an ongoing process of shepherding. And so in the youngest ages, it's giving your kids building blocks so that they can understand the difference between the worldview that God created and is revealing through his creation versus what the culture says is we evolved and we create our own purpose for everything. Building blocks like sometimes we need to say no to what feels good. And then we start even just with language at young ages and talking about our anatomy and the goodness of how God created us and the beauty of marriage, teaching and discipling and things like good pictures, bad pictures and good touch, bad touch and boundaries and modesty and all those things are building blocks that kids need to have, say, before the ages of 10 or 11. And then you can start getting into more of what we would traditionally call sex education where we're teaching the purpose of sexuality and how to steward. But Jim, I think another very important paradigm shift for parents is you and I grew up with a mentality that sex was a pass fail test for both the kid and the parent. Like, can we get our kids to the marriage altar as virgins? And it was like either you're a virgin or you're not. We can't think about sexual integrity that way. Perhaps we never should have. We have to think about it in terms of the integration of the gospel. The reality is that most kids in this generation are going to get mixed up in things like pornography, sexting, questions about gender identity or sexual orientation. They're going to be confused by these things. So discipleship is how do parents and other church leaders and mentors join them on that journey and bring the message of the gospel into those questions and even into the times where they fail. And that's a very different paradigm than I think most of us grew up thinking about related to our sexuality. I appreciate you talking about the pass fail because I think that was ingrained into what we call the purity culture, the negative side of the purity culture. I mean, I love the word purity. It doesn't fit now because so many people had bad experiences with it. But what I hear you saying is even with what you're saying even a little while ago, you build a foundation with your kids. God made your body. God made boys. God made girls. Sometimes they never hear that. And that's the foundation. And then that foundation gives you the ability to have the conversations that you were then talking about gender identity, various things in the culture and whatnot, but do it from a different framework. It's interesting you talked about this because I think so often we don't mix spirituality and sexuality. And I literally just have a book out for kids. And I never thought I would write another. I wrote a lot of book for kids because I used to be a youth speaker, but I never thought I would do it. And this one's called a student's guide to sexual integrity. And I said it's most spiritual I've ever done. But spirit when they say spiritual, they think it's going to be negative or God preaching. God's going to get you. And I don't think that's it. God is the master designer. So we need to let kids know that he is the master designer and his idea. Even some of the things don't have fornication, sexual immorality, things like that. He's doing that to guard us and to help us. That's talking about guarding our hearts. So I really appreciate you saying that. You used another phrase where you said holy sexuality. When you said that, do you think when people hear that, they think of that as negative or positive? I think most people are really confused when they hear those two words together. They don't even know where do I even start to understand that. Because you mentioned the spirituality of our sexuality. In my experience of now 12 years full time talking to Christians about sex, what I've found is that most of us separate God and sex into different categories of life. That there's this natural sense of I worship God with this part of my being, but the sexual part I have no idea how to pray about that part of my life. That God cares about that part of my life. All I know is that he doesn't want me to behave in certain ways. We have such a limited understanding of the fullness and wholeness of what God created sexuality to be. I think most Christians think the best I can do in terms of holiness and sexuality is to avoid sin, not to walk in the fullness of God's creation, whether you're single or married. And so I think there's a lot of confusion around what does it even look like besides just avoiding sin? That is the message we need to hear. And I appreciate you saying so much. By the way, everybody, authentic intimacy, and we've got all the information on how to get there on your show notes. You can just also Google it. But that, you know, we all need to be mentored. We all need some discipleship. And sometimes we most good discipleship is person to person, but it can also be with reading and resources. If you go to authentic intimacy, I was just there on the on the website. Julie's done an incredible job with that. So get over there. Hey, look, we're going to take a quick break when we come back. I'm going to kind of ask Julie a multi-level layered conversation. Her husband had dad nuggets with her kids. And I want to know what those how he did dad nuggets with the boys. So we'll talk about that when we come back again. Dr. Julie Slattery is with us today. We're talking about rethinking sexuality as part of our three part series. Research says that the more positive value centered sex education kids receive from home, and I think I'm going to change the word education to discipleship, the less promiscuous and interesting enough, the less confused they'll be. And that's research, by the way, that's secular research. OK, so we need to hear that and know that. Yet most parents didn't receive it from their home. So they're not passing it on to their kids. So the book Rethinking Sexuality is a great start. I literally have just read this book and all the information, like I said, is on in our show notes. So we're going to take a quick break. We'll be right back. Don't go away. I'm Erin Macha and I want to invite you into an honest conversation about one of life's most awkward yet important topics, sex. Conversations about sex can bring up all kinds of weird emotions, not the least of which is awkward. But that's not a reason to avoid the topic altogether. So if everybody's doing it, then what's the big deal? Where do you go with your questions? There are lots of voices telling you who you are, how to dress, what to think, how to feel. So how do we know what to listen to? Who can we trust to guide us? When we treat others with radical respect, we honor God. We make our lives and relationships better and we reflect God's love to the world all around us. Now, I know you might be thinking, what? I don't I don't need guardrails. I have good intentions. But what if intention isn't enough? And as you think about the path from where you are now to where you want to be, who are the friends that can help you get there? You'll hear personal stories, helpful advice and truth from the Bible about how to make wise choices when it comes to love, sex and dating. Imagine being able to look back on this stage of your life without regrets about the way you handled relationships. You're not going to get there by accident. You're going to have to decide in advance what guardrails to put in place to get to where you want to be. Join us for a student's guide to sexual integrity. Welcome back. I'm Jim Burns. Great conversation today with Dr. Julie Slattery today on rethinking sexuality. You know, you're you told a fun story about your husband having dad nuggets. And you know, when the guys are teenagers, they're probably rolling their eyes a little bit on dad nuggets. And they weren't all on sex and sexuality. But talk about those nuggets, because I said at the beginning of this podcast, I would rather talk about sexuality. I'd rather have one minute conversations than one hundreds of them than one 100 minute conversation. Talk about those dad nuggets with, you know, how he got away. Yeah. Well, yeah, I think the kids did roll their eyes a few times. My husband is definitely a talker, like a verbal processor. So he would sit one of the boys down for kind of one of his his dad chats. And he'd always say, this is a nugget for you. And what he was what he was saying from the heart of a dad, is this something I've learned over time that I want to pass on to you? And it's it's fun now that the boys are in their 20s to see them kind of refer back to those central nuggets that dad taught them. And they're like, man, like we're like we're doing those things that you taught us. So it was just sort of like a fun little terminology that would describe kind of the wisdom that that my husband wanted to pass on to his three sons. What I loved is that your husband would kind of pull him in and they'd have this conversation. And, you know, I had conversations with our girls, Kathy and I, we thought we actually did pretty good with sex education, even compared to believe. I mean, we didn't think we did perfect. And not too long ago, my oldest daughter, Christy, said, oh, dad thought he did a great job. But he could speak to thousands of kids about sex and sexuality. He'd get to us. He'd stutter. His bald head would sweat. His ears would turn red. And I kind of thought about it. She goes, it was so awkward. Dad was so awkward. And I thought, wait, I thought I was giving perfect nuggets. But I was going, buh, buh, buh, buh. You know, it's interesting, Jim. I would rather talk to a thousand strangers than my own kids. And and it's it's much more nerve wracking to look your own children in the eyes and then and to say very honest things and address hard, hard issues. So, you know, I have a lot of compassion and empathy for parents. This is not easy. It doesn't matter. You can write books on it and it's still a difficult conversation with your own children. Yeah. I mean, you're so right. I mean, you mentioned things that are very much involved, that you're very much involved in, you know, some of the tougher subjects and with couples. I'll have a couple come to me and we do a lot of marriage things here at Homeward. And they'll say, I can talk to my wife about anything, but I can't talk to her about sex or a woman say, I've never had a conversation about sex and sexuality with my husband. You must hear those all the time. Yeah. Yeah, of course. So and they're even being intimate, but they're not willing to talk about it. So, you know, they're that emotional involvement that oftentimes precedes good physical intimacy doesn't take place because we're not. No. Yeah. One of the things that I'll tell couples is there's a difference between being sexually active and sexually intimate. And you can't be sexually intimate without learning to talk not just about the basics of what you want or our bodies, but what is the meaning of sex? How do you feel when you initiate? And I say, no. You know, what is talk about sexual shame and how you grew up and how different situations have impacted you over the years. And most couples have no tools to even start having those kinds of conversations that forge true intimacy. Right. Right. So, so true. You know, what do you say to the person who's like, Hey, I have just become a believer. I've been listening to Julie and I've been listening to Jim. And as they talk, I want to do something like this. But I have all kinds of sexual baggage or I have some real hurts I haven't even dealt with, but I do want to talk to my kids. But I'm afraid on one level, I won't do a good job. And number two, what if they ask me about me? Cause I haven't really, you know, told them everything. What do you say to that? You get that question. I'm sure all the time. I get it all the time. Yeah. What do you say to that person? Well, I would say, first of all, do your own work. Uh, and it doesn't, it doesn't mean that you have to be perfect before you talk to your kids about sex, but at least be on the road to addressing these kinds of issues, um, so that you're not speaking from a place where you feel like, Oh, I'm just, I'm just sort of faking the right words, but in my heart of hearts, I have my own shame. Um, but then also in, I know Jim, your ministry and research would, would be consistent with this teenagers in particular have the most respect for parents when they're real and vulnerable. And when they see that you're not perfect, you're not trying to be perfect, but you're authentic. And so, you know, I think there's definitely a place when age appropriate ways to let your kids know that I haven't always done this well. And actually, even as a 45 year old dad, I'm dealing with some of the consequences of some of the decisions I made 20 years ago. And, uh, and when, when, when you get older, I'm happy to share some of that with you. Yeah. No, I really don't. It's modeling that vulnerability. It's modeling that we're always still growing that God is a gracious God, but it's not particularly with the younger teenager giving them something to carry that they're not emotionally ready to hold in terms of details. Yeah. You're handing that if you, if you give them too much detail, too young, you're handing them a burden. But if you say, you know what, I, I didn't always do it right. I have a passion for this. And because I didn't always do it right, my passion is to have conversation with you. And when you're older, we can talk, but that's the part of, uh, of being authentic. You know, you, you're so right. You know, today's young people, teens, but also, you know, this next generation, and I say this to pastors all the time, you know, they want authenticity. You know, the Bible says the man or woman of integrity walks securely. And I actually think of integrity as being perfect. It means being authentic in many ways, along with other things. But when you are authentic with your kids, then that brings security to them. And, uh, we sometimes get way too, uh, holier than now, if you would, uh, in one of your chapters, and I, this might've been one of my favorite chapters. It's called the promise where you say that Jesus came to redeem broken sexuality and in many ways, by me reading that, that I've read, I literally read the chapter yesterday, but I sense that you think most people have a broken sexuality and Jesus came to redeem that. I'd love to hear your comments on that. Yeah. I actually believe that all people have a broken sexuality. I, I read that, but I didn't want to say it in case I missed it, but yeah, you're right. So no, I, I, I wouldn't have, I wouldn't have told you that 15 years ago before I started this ministry, like I was sort of the poster child for the Christian family. You know, like growing up purity culture, all of it. And, you know, I've learned that we have a very simplistic definition of wholeness, which means we have a simplistic definition of brokenness. But when we understand more fully what God designed sex to be, we start to realize how, how short we fall of that. So, uh, every single person has had shame attached at some level with their sexuality. Uh, every single person has in word or deed or thought, objectified other people. Um, many of us have been sinned against and some low, all of us, all of us are impacted by a pornographic culture, even if we don't look at porn. Um, and so we all have these lies and wounds around our sexuality that we don't know what to do with. And so we also live in a church culture where again, there's really not a lot of direction on, well, then how, what's true and how do we seek redemption and how do we seek wholeness? And so we kind of stay stuck and, uh, and we don't realize that, no, like God's redemption of our life is meant to involve every single aspect of who we are, including our sexuality. That's just, that's just great news. Um, I mentioned this to you before the podcast started, but I was having this conversation with, uh, one of our mutual friends and, uh, she says, Julie Slattery communicates about sexuality so clearly with love, grace and truth. And, and she's willing to take on all the subjects. Now I'm thinking about the parents. So we, they hear you talk and they go, oh gosh, I want to be like, you know, I want to be like her, I want to be able to talk like that. Will you, like you say, you do this, this is your, this is authentic intimacy. You, this is your calling. They want to have those kinds of conversations with their kids. Their spouse doesn't even want to jump into it at all to talk with their kids about it, how do, how, so it's super difficult for them. How do they learn to do what you're doing effectively within their own family? I'm not talking about speaking and writing and, you know, being a not leader. I'm talking about in their family, how do they move from, we've not had these conversations to beginning to tip toe? I mean, there's going to be people who are going to go, you know what, tonight, I need to sit down my 16 year old and have this conversation. And I would say to them, please don't do that right now. They're going to say, well, what do you want to know, Bob? What do you want to know? Right. But how do you, how do you develop this for the parent, not for people who are doing this for a living, but for the, for the parent who's like, I just want to, and I'm, I don't even know how to start. Yeah. I think we start everything in the Christian life by inviting God into it and praying. And you know, God cares about this. So Lord, give me wisdom, give me the words. And then I think it's perfectly appropriate to say, you know what, we, I haven't done a good job at this. Um, I don't, my parents didn't really talk to me about sex, but I even heard something today that just really, I'm sorry. No problem. Keep the dog going. This is a podcast. We're good. Yeah. Um, but I think it's okay just to say, Hey, like I heard something today that really struck me and I would start to realize like, we need to have more conversations about sexuality. And, uh, I want, I'm learning. I'm learning what it is to honor God with this area of my life. And I want to do a better job at being a safe place for you to talk. So, um, and then I would use resources. So when we were raising our kids, when they were in those teen years, let me first tell you, my kids will never read my books or listen to my podcast. They're like, that's just awkward, mom. And I get it, but I will use other resources. So, you know, I, I encourage them to read Sean McDowell's book, Chasing Love. We love the ministry access, um, where they have these really engaging videos and parent, teen conversation guides. So, um, we use things like that to kind of set the parameters of the conversation to take some of the pressure off of the parent doing all the teaching. Um, and I think the other piece of it is recognizing that you, you have to walk before you run and it's okay to stumble in these conversations. Uh, give yourself lots of grace. Uh, I was just talking to a parent yesterday and I said, you know, we are all kind of pioneers in this area because we can't ask our grandparents how they handled the gender identity question, but you know, we can't ask them how they, how they monitored smartphones. Like this is all brand new. And so every single parent is trying to figure out something that they've not had modeled for them. And it's so quickly evolving that we need to rely on the body of Christ. As we've learned together, we need to give each other lots of grace for figuring things out and sometimes making mistakes and learning along the way. Um, so, you know, God is with us. He, he gives us grace. He gives us wisdom, but don't be afraid of failing, you know, just step into it. And as much as you might fumble around and say the wrong thing, like just keep the conversation going. I actually want to take that part of your, our conversation and send it out to the world because that, that is so important and so good, we don't have to do it. Perfect. And you know, we do have resources today. You know, when a lot of, when your grandparents, they didn't have resources, you know, your parents didn't have many resources, but the truth is today we do have good resources and, uh, and I, thank you so much for being one of the great resources, of course, is authentic intimacy and Julie's lottery. So it's so, so great to have you on our podcast today. Thanks so much for giving me an opportunity to share it was a joy. Boy, time went by. Hey, don't forget to go to our show notes and you can get all things about authentic intimacy and her resources. You know, our job at Homeward is to provide, uh, world-class experts to you on subjects to help you build strong marriages and today, confident parents. And you're never going to be confident by the way, when, when it comes to, to talking to your kids about second sexuality, just get over that one right there. Uh, but the truth is, is that when kids, um, do get your authentic, uh, conversations, even if you're feeling like you're fumbling, that's going to help them like crazy and it really does make a difference. Uh, go back to the last two podcasts. If you haven't listened to them, they were great. And that'll help you kind of put this together. Like I said, we saved the best for last and you can always go to Homeward.com. We have great resources also on sex and sexuality, kids from three to five, six to nine teens, and then, uh, for you as well. So, uh, you know, don't hesitate to go there and, uh, thanks for listening today on one of the major podcast platforms, as well as what, if you're watching it on the Homeward YouTube channel, um, an honor to have Julie with us today. Thanks for listening. Well, sexual intimacy is one of the most common issues in marriage, maybe the least talked about in marriage. And it's an interesting fact. Here's one. Here's an interesting fact from Shanti Felthand's new book. 80% of couples are saying that they're mismatched in how they want sexual intimacy. Well, you know, many times when I look out at an audience and I'm speaking on marriage, I just assume that about 50% of the people are struggling in this issue one way or another. And maybe I'm low on that. But you know, it's an important issue. It's an important issue for us to talk about today. And today, we're going to tackle that subject, secrets of sex and marriage with my good friend Shanti Felthand. If you have littles in the car and you're listening to this, then I'm going to suggest that you turn this off and listen to it at a different time. And if you're at home and there's some littles running around that you actually put your iPods on or earpods, not your earpods, you actually put your earbuds on. And that might be helpful. Okay. Or listen to it at another time. It's too important of a subject. And I'll just be honest with you, we're going to be blunt, quite popular. You might think we're going to be blunt. But we think we can be very, very helpful today. So my guest is Shanti Felthand. And I'm just I have a smile on my face because she's here. And she is a groundbreaking social researcher, bestselling author, speaker, and a mom and a wife. And after receiving a master's degree from Harvard University, just a small little school up there in the Boston area, she worked in Wall Street. And because she's analytical, she took her ability to be analytical and those skills and she's making a difference for people to thrive and for relationships. And I love every one of her books. I think I've honestly read every book that she has. She's married to Jeff. I love Jeff. That's her husband. And they have a couple of adult children. And Shanti's recent book is called Secrets of Sex and Marriage. And she's the co-author along with Dr. Michael Sistma. Michael is a ordained pastor, counselor and a licensed therapist. Like I said, Shanti is one of my favorite people, but she's also my favorite Christian researcher. And I've got some friends, we have mutual friends who are researchers. So she's I'm saying that, you know, in a big way. Shanti, thanks so much for coming on the podcast. Oh, my gosh. I'm so thrilled, thrilled to be with you. Well, it's great to be with you. I have to tell you a story at the beginning, though. So last night I was I was speaking to a group of parents and then I came home and Kathy has been doing a Bible study for about 15 years and she had all of her friends there and all the women from the Bible study and they'd had a big Italian meal. And one of the women was leaving. So they're doing three good things and all giving gifts. And, you know, there was some emotion in this. And I'm sitting in the other room. I can kind of hear it. But I'm reading your book, Secrets of Sex and Marriage for the second time. And and I'm doing my work and not paying any attention. Well, the thing was over and I missed it. And she came out and then others started coming out and said, hey, Jim, bye, Jim. And I realized I had your book and it actually got awkward for me. I speak on this subject. I'm like, oh, my gosh, maybe it was embarrassing for Kathy or, you know, she didn't care. I'm going to hide the title. Yeah, exactly. It was awkward. Why is it awkward to speak about something so important and so God given as sexual intimacy? You know, that is the question of the ages, right? When it comes to marriage, one of the reasons because you'd think like, OK, it's awkward to talk to other people about it. Right. And it's because it's so sensitive and so sacred and so personal. Which so maybe it should be awkward to some degree to raise something that's so sacred for the two of you outside your marriage. Not that you shouldn't, but that that's, you know, it's good to be attuned to that within your marriage. Why is it awkward? We when we were doing the research for this, because this was about a three year study. One of the things that we found is that everybody gets this like look on their face when you talk about this topic. And when I go, what's that look right? Like what? And the response that was very common is because I think I'm going to need to talk about technique. And there's this huge relief that actually comes when I say, look, the communication in this topic, what we found that matters. OK, there's maybe a place for that. I don't know. I'm not the sex therapist. That's Dr. Sitesma. You know, I'll let him I'll let him talk about that. But most of the time, it's actually about stuff that has nothing to do with that. It's all the needs and fears and worries and expectations that have nothing to do with that. And some of that, you know, I know that I speak a lot of times on talking to your children about healthy sexuality. And I always I always open this way. I go, how many of you receive good, positive, healthy sex education from your parents? And if the room has 400 people in it, like nine people raise their hand. Right. And so one of the reasons might be because nobody really talked to us about this. And so we didn't have safe people. Our parents, a lot of times weren't safe somewhere, you know. Yeah. But maybe that just carries over now in in relationships. I don't know. Now, you talked about this study, and the study was called the marriage intimacy study. And you did it for three years. Really an incredible research project that you did. And there are some surprises. What was just a few of the surprises for you from that study that just as a researcher that you didn't see coming, because you've written other things on sexuality. I love all of that. Yeah. This was different. This this had a different feel to it. And there were some surprises even for you. There were. And now I should say nothing surprised Dr. Sitesma. Seriously. Yeah. Would you like to be the kid of a sex therapist, too? No offense to Dr. Sitesma. I know. Oh, God, that'd be tough. My kids would go, no, please. They were embarrassed that I talked to students about sex back in my. Yeah, I can imagine. I can imagine. We actually part of the the amusing part of this project is that we lost our summer intern, who is a graduate student in this arena, who is going to be doing a lot of number crunching. And our daughter was a junior in college and needed a summer internship. And we're like, oh, and she is an engineer. She's data analysis. Like she was totally perfect for it. And we're like, can we pretend that we're not mom and daughter for the course of the summer while you're analyzing this for me? It was it was really amusing. That actually is funny. Yeah. So but when you ask about the surprises, oh, my word, even things that we had studied a bit before, like some of the things that we had put in for men only and for men only. I mean, I was so surprised by how really vital and how little understood some of these surprises were. So I'll give you one example that is usually a pretty foundational thing. You mentioned that almost 80 percent of people have a mismatch, right? It's 79 percent of the population. One spouse just once more in a seat than the other. Right. Issues lots of things. Right. Whatever the thing is. Right. And the issue we found is that when that happens, which is obviously so common, most couples assume that there's only one reason why. And both people assume this. OK. Not just one or the other. Both people assume that it's because one person has a higher libido than the other, just a higher drive. Right. And if you think about it, that actually puts a lot of pressure on the person who has the lower drive. Exactly. I mean, that's basically by definition, you know, there's a lot of stress there. And what we found is that that is usually actually not the case. Interesting. Now, it could be that they have two different sort of drives, but that's usually not the reason that they're not connecting. And usually one of the most common reasons is that there's two different types of desire. And the two different types of desire explains an enormous amount of the heartache. Yeah. I mean, talk about those. What are you talking about? So think about think about how we expect sex to work based on everything that we see in the movies, everything that we read now, because remember, like we talked earlier, like we don't even talk about this topic with our closest friends. Right. We have no grid other than what we see in the movies or whatever. And what you see is the guy and the girl, they look at each other across the room and there's a spark and there's a hunger. And pretty soon they both feel that. And pretty soon their clothes are off and they're in bed. Right. Like that's that's just the way we think it's supposed to work. And when it doesn't work like that in our house, there's there's a lot of maybe the person who wants a bit more is thinking something's broken, like what's wrong with you? You don't want to rip my clothes off. And and the person who maybe wants a little bit less or doesn't have that same kind of attitude and that hunger, they're like, what's wrong with me? Both people think one person is broken. And instead, what we found is that that kind of Hollywood view, that is one type of desire called intentional desire. You could call it initiating intentional, whatever we call it, initiating desire. In the book, you talked about another desire to. And but that's the second type. And the second type is called receptive desire. And here was what just threw me, even though I've been working with this kind of arena for 20 years. Right. I did not know until this project that receptive desire works physiologically in the reverse order. You the person with receptive desire, which, by the way, is 73 percent of women. OK, big number. Right. The person with receptive desire, they don't feel that same sense of hunger. They don't feel that they make. Instead, they're making a decision to get engaged with their spouse in that way. Now, knowing that it's going to be good eventually and this isn't coercion and this isn't coercion and this is this is just, you know, I know because of how such and such is wired. This is just how it's supposed how it's going to work. So that person who has receptive desire, they make a decision. And then as they start getting engaged with their spouse, assuming that it's a positive experience and all of that, then their physiology starts getting stimulated. And then they start feeling that sense of desire. That maybe their spouse felt 10 minutes ago. And that one thing, knowing, oh, this is a physiological difference is so, so relieving and empowering and freeing because it takes it off of the something's broken. And it's like, no, actually, nothing's broken. This is just the way the two of us are wired. That's very helpful. You know, so many times I think people, you know, they look at the honeymoon as that moment that you described in the movies and it might be even. But again, I say to people over the years, if you do this right, your sexual intimacy will be even much more meaningful as you learn to to share. And that's one of the things you were talking about. Now, what do you what do you say to the person who who is listening, watching on YouTube and and they're they're struggling. I mean, and they have some past issues. I mean, it might be it could be anything from sexual abuse, as so many of the women that you were speaking at a at a women's conference. It could be sexual abuse. It could be baggage. It could be so many other issues, maybe deep heartache from something that had taken place in the marriage. Absolutely. Say to them, I mean, is there hope for them? Oh, so much hope. One of the one of the things that was it was so encouraging when Jeff and I were doing a bunch of the interviews. Jeff, my husband and I were doing a bunch of the interviews for this. And I I should explain how we did the interviews just really briefly, because it's one of these topics that you don't talk about again. And so the way we did it in order to get kind of candid, like honest responses from couples is we actually did them anonymously over Zoom with their cameras blacked out. So like our cameras were on so they could see us and talk to us. But they theirs was blacked out and they had a fake name. Right. Like so Wanda and Vision or Farm Boy and Buttercup. Right. Like they chose a name. I want to be Buttercup if I ever get in any of your research. Yeah. But one of the things that we heard that was so encouraging is that there were several of these couples that were part of this anonymous data set that had gone through really, really significant heartache. We had a much higher than in the general population percentage of people who had had sexual abuse, etc. in their past, some significant abuse or dysfunction. And because it was a higher number than we were expecting, we were expecting to go, oof, like how are we going to manage the data analysis because that's not representative? And, you know, we just didn't know. And I was concerned that it would end up being discouraging. Like some of the stuff that we found in that section of the data before we got to the national, because we eventually do these nationally representative surveys and stuff. But when we actually looked at it, it was the reverse of discouraging because so many of those couples, what they had to share was that they had come through that and out the other side. Well, that's really neat. And it was, we were asking, what are the little things that matter? Right? Like that's all what we were trying to do is what are the simple things that you wouldn't know mattered that really matter? Like what we were just saying, that there's these two different types of desire. Yeah. No, that's really good. One of the, it was interesting, as I read through your book, it's actually the second time I've read it because you'd sent it to me when it was just out and then I looked at it again, preparing for our conversation. And one of the things that jumped out at me was you say people who are able to talk about sex with their spouse, tend to have significantly more sex. Yes. Yes. This one, when we looked at the data and we were started crunching again, this was the nationally representative survey and we did two of them actually. And one was what's called a matched pair survey. And so that was particularly valuable because it was husbands and wives who were married to each other. Now we didn't know who they were. Their answers were independent. They didn't know what each other was answering, but we knew who, you know, husband 31 was married to wife 31. And one of the things that was really surprising, but it's like, okay, this makes sense is that when that husband and that wife could in some reasonable way have a conversation about this topic and have the conversation about what's going on under the surface, for example, and share what really mattered to them and share if, like, you know, I, I feel like we're not connecting and I don't want to be with you when we're not connected, you know, those kinds of things. They were far more likely by an order of magnitude to actually be intimate once a week or more. And that ended up being an interesting, literally statistically ended up being an interesting signal of all sorts of other things that came down to, wow, are they talking about it or not? Yeah. I encourage couples to have to talk. And sometimes it is awkward. It's weird to have some content because we're not used to it. But I find that, you know, when we're looking at, at developing intimacy, you know, oftentimes emotional intimacy proceeds physical intimacy, especially for, for a woman. So the man has to talk and listen or whatever. But I say if you're not willing to talk about sex, then that's not intimate. But if you do that, there's an intimacy about it. Even if it's something that you're struggling with, it's still a good thing to say. That's what I appreciate you saying. Yeah, go ahead. I was just going to say, I mean, think about it. Like the whole reason it's awkward is that it's so personal. Well, you're opening about something that's personal to you to the person who cares the most about knowing the inner you. So that's the reason that it matters. You know, I've been in a small group for 23 years and I'm a better husband, father, Christ father, because of these amazing men, we don't talk about sex. I mean, we work around it. Nobody, nobody has like major a major issue with it in terms of, you know, I think people don't know. Right. No, I don't know. Yeah. But I think they're pretty comfortable, you know, with some of the conversation, but they, we don't talk about, that's a subject that it's not like it's taboo. We could probably talk about it. We just don't. We're a bunch of guys. And, you know, yet we're really intimate about other issues that we talk about. Jeff is, um, has been in a men's group for a lot of years. And, um, he told us when we were starting the research for this, I'm like, do you guys ever like talking about it? He's like the closest we get to talking about it is, yeah, there's not a lot of action going on in our house right now. Oh, correct. No, what's next on the agenda? What's next? Yeah. What's the other progress? Oh, yeah. You got it. You got a big, you got a big business deal going on, but you're right. It is, it is interesting. Now, uh, I want to talk about atmosphere in a relationship because what people have said to me a lot of times is, you know, I don't, I'm not drawn to sexual intimacy because my spouse, male or female, they're, they're so negative. There's tension. They're, you know, they're just, they're not, um, setting a good atmosphere, the tone, the spirit. What do you say to that? Did you see that? Did people say, Oh, yes, we did. And actually we've seen this in pretty much all of our research over 20 years, not just this study. Um, but it's one of those things that you think of it as being primarily about the wife. And it's actually not just about the wife. Um, I had one guy in the research. He said, look, you know, my wife criticizes me all day and then wants to be together. And I'm like, you're emasculating me all day. And then you want me to perform at night. Like it doesn't work that way. And I mean, that's a relatively extreme example, um, but it happens. And so one of the things that we, if you flip them to the other side of things and you say to the men, one of the other things that is a pretty, pretty significant difference is that hormonally, it turns out men are much more likely when they're, it's, let's say it's not a, um, not an extreme situation, right? Like it's not that their wife is criticizing them all day long, right? It's, it's just the normal tension of life. One of the things that is pretty common is that men, when they feel that distance, they automatically crave connection. Well, for men, the chemicals in the hormones, the sexual chemicals that are released during sex are actually the ones that bond them with their wife. For women, those chemicals can be released at many different times. Like you can have a, really significant deep conversation with a close friend. You can be holding your baby, you can be whatever, and you're getting those kinds of bonding hormones released with men. It happens at one time. And that's when they're with their wife in that way. And so when they're feeling distant and they instantly, they're like, I want to be connected to you in the bedroom. And the wife is like, uh, excuse me. Like we've argued and you haven't been with me all day. And you know, we're at odds. Let's solve that first. And then we can be connected in the bedroom. And so understanding that difference is really important because then I always tell the husbands, in addition to the wives, make sure that she understands that the reason that you're trying to connect, isn't that you're demanding. It's not that you're not caring about what was going on between you. It's because you care. And that actually helps a lot. Yeah. No, that's, that's really helpful. Listen, we're going to take a real quick break. We'll be right back. Shanti Feldhahn with us when we come back. I'm going to actually ask about scheduling sex because she wrote about this and it sounds so unromantic, but it sounds like it's a really good idea. So we'll be right back. I'm Jim Burns. You're listening to Homeward. Welcome back. We're talking with Shanti Feldhahn about well her new book, Secrets of Sex and Marriage, great subtitle, Eight Surprises That Make a Difference. And go buy that book. I mean, you can tell by this conversation, this book would be helpful and beneficial to you. You can get the book wherever books are sold, but you can also go to Shanti.com. I love her website and I love the fact that her name Shanti, she doesn't even need her last name Feldhahn in it because it's just Shanti.com. It's a great, great website, has just a lot of good stuff for you. And other books that are just wonderful. One year, I told Shanti this a number of years ago, but one year, instead of giving to the board at Homeward, one of my books, I gave them for women only and for men only, because I just thought they were so good. Nobody ever says thank you for your books, Jim. They go, Hey, what was that? You know, that book, it was life-changing for me. It was Shanti's book. So anyway, great to have her back. And Shanti, I want to ask you about, I mentioned right before the break, I wanted to ask you about scheduling sex. One of the things that, you know, when we talk about the busyness of life, you suggested and found this in terms of even the research that if somebody would schedule sex. Now, I think there's a lot of people who would say, wait, it's supposed to be spontaneous, but you're saying if you schedule it, it's really a good idea for many people. It actually is. You know how we talked about the two different types of desire and how you have this physiological difference and you have initiating desire and you have receptive desire, right? Well, it turns out that one of the solutions to that is scheduling. Because if you're not, like if one person is just, is not thinking about it, cause that's the deal, right? The receptive desire person just isn't thinking about it. And suddenly they know, okay, it's like, okay, every Wednesday night, the kids go to Bible study. They're out at the church. So every Wednesday night is our night or whatever it is. And suddenly you're thinking about it and it, it completely changes the dynamic. It gives the receptive desire person what we call anticipation time. And it's, and it's a way for them, for a couple to know that you're going to connect. And one of the things that Dr. Sitesma who, you know, is a sex therapist that we wrote the book with, he and actually pretty much all other sex therapists out there, they really highly recommend this. And, and they say, if you can, try to schedule it once a week, because a lot of good things tend to follow in the relationship and candidly in sexual desire when you're generally engaged about once a week or more. Yeah. No, that's not, that's something real. That's a great idea actually. And you and I have a friend, I'm not going to say the name because it was private to toward me, but I was speaking at an event. I've actually told this on the podcast before, but I was speaking at an event and the woman, I was having breakfast with them and Kathy was actually there, but she was still sleeping and she said, Oh, I'm going to your session on teaching your children healthy sexuality. She goes, you know, we have sex every Wednesday. You mentioned the word Wednesday. And he's a pastor of one of the larger churches and you know, this church and he kind of went, he stopped in mid, you know, putting the eggs into his mouth or whatever. I can't believe you just told Jim that story, right? And I said, well, tell me about that. But what was interesting is they said, we look forward to it every time. And I said, wait, wait, I've been at your church Wednesdays. You have 2000 people in the auditorium where you speak. I'm looking at the pastor and he goes, yeah, you know how I'm always liked long winded. I'm never long winded on Wednesday. They just laughed, but that was a neat thing to see. That is me. Yeah. Five days later. And I even, you know, I said, well, why just, they go, I don't even know why we chose Wednesday. It was just, it was a good day. So here we go. But anyway, scheduling sex is a, is a great, great idea. I love this quote by you in the book. It says, sex was designed to teach us about God, about ourselves and about our relationship with each other. What, what did that mean? One of the things that was so special about this project and working with Dr. Saitama is that he's not just a sex therapist. He's a pastor. And so he kept wanting to, because I'm like all practical, like I want to help you to communicate around this topic. And, and he's like, yes, but what does this mean in terms of the heart and our relationship with God and our relationship with one another? And one of the things that he brought up that I guess I had probably known, you know, it heard in years past is that when you look at how sexual intimacy is described in the Bible and you look at all of the ways that there's actually a sense of, I mean, we all know the connection between Christ and his church and the connection between a husband and wife is sort of paralleled, right? Like this idea of really, really intimate connection. And one of the ways it's described in the Old Testament is when it says Adam knew his wife, that word is not just a euphemism. It's the word Yedah in Hebrew. And there is this really powerful thing that's captured with that of we know one another in the most intimate way possible. And that knowing is one of the things that looks like God designed for us to have this kind of connection that we don't have with anybody else. And it's sacred. Yeah. And I remember reading it in your book and I kind of smiled because when I was, I wasn't raised in the church. And then when I became a youth pastor, I remember somebody saying this, no. And I had just gotten married to Kathy and I was like, Whoa, that is deep. Because that's, you know, when we're talking about intimacy, that's what intimacy is. And you know, when Jesus even said, you know, a man will leave his father and mother be united to his wife. That means bonded. That means to know your spouse. And that's good news because we can work. Like you say, you could come from a tough situation and you can, you can learn to know you. Somebody once said to me, Neil, Neil Clark Warren said to me, he was kind of a mentor in my life. He said, communication is a learned trait and part of sexuality is communication. And so we can learn to know. I mean, I know Kathy at this stage in our marriage all these years, a lot better than I knew her at the beginning. And that's in every form. And so we sometimes just think of the act of sex, but there there's so much more, more to that. Now, I'm going to take you back about 10 years. This is not with your book, but I, we were, you were speaking at an event for Homeward and I took you into a room and there was another guy there who, you know, was also a researcher and a wonderful man, one of my dear friends. And there had been a rumor about, you know, that many years ago or more that, you know, 50% of Christian Scott divorced and whatnot. And you said, no, no, that's not the case because of your research. Yeah. And I was so happy to hear that. And I want you to tell our listeners, what your research said about Christians. Cause again, Christians get divorced and Christians have problems all the same. And sexuality, absolutely. But, but you're, some of your research from the past, I think blends with what you're doing in this book. Talk about that. You remember the time? I totally remember that. I'm like, I cannot believe you are setting me up to have this conversation. With this guy that I am publicly like saying, he's kind of being misquoted. He's kind of, yeah. Yeah. So here's the, here's the reality that I think will be encouraging to everybody and, and all the Christians and candidly all the pastors who have heard this, leave this, which to them, it means all my work doesn't mean very much, right? If the rate of divorce is the same here as it is out there, right? So it turns out that that is based on a major misunderstanding of some data from the Barna Group back 20 something years ago. Everybody thinks that the Barna Group found that Christian's divorce at the same rate, excuse me. Everybody thinks that the Barna Group found that the rate of divorce is the same in the church and they didn't because they never, they were not studying people in the church. They were studying belief systems. And when you call people on the phone and ask, you know, are you Christian, are you Jewish, are you Muslim, are you atheist, whatever, those groups do have the same divorce rate. But the Barna Group specifically excluded church attendance from the analysis because they weren't, that wasn't what they were trying to study. And so I actually partnered with the Barna Group and I bought that data set and we reran all the numbers with that one factor added back in of, you know, was the person in church last week. And according, by the way, to the Barna Group data that we were rerunning and pretty much every other study that's ever been done, which is not hyperbole, this is accurate. The divorce rate for churchgoers plummets and it falls anywhere from, depending on the study, 25 to 50 percent. And some studies, there was a study out of Harvard two years ago, I think, that found it went down 58 percent. And it's the key is, are we making church a part of our life? Demographers, secular demographers will argue all day long about divorce rates and this and that and the other. But it's really interesting when it comes to this, there's no argument. They all know that for churchgoers, for people who make faith a part of their life as a Christian, it's a hugely bonding and a hugely protective thing. And you're right, it does impact this topic that we're talking about of intimacy because you're having intimacy, not just with one another, but with God. Yeah, it's so important. And, you know, there's sometimes people will take that scripture. I quoted it as Matthew 19 for Jesus speaking out of the Old Testament. But he said, you know, man will leave his father and mother, be united to his wife and the two will become one flesh. Well, in some ways, that is a God and intimacy and our spouse and intimacy. Those are the two most intimate relationships we can have. You can pull those together. So what I learned from you was that just if a couple will say, look, we're going to go to church, we're going to worship. I mean, we want to worship more, but if we're worshiped two times a month, that really that really changes things. It does statistically. And one of the things that I would encourage people to do is recognize that there are several things in the data that make church attendance so important. You know, things like, you know, listening to good teaching, trying to get closer to God personally, you know, all that being in community. But it's also there's something there that's a mystery. There's something there that's just a supernatural thing that God does. Yeah, yeah. And I surely understand that. I was thinking last Sunday, I was sitting next to Kathy, and then I was standing when we were worshiping and I felt really close to her. And, you know, I watched her, she was having her own moment. She wouldn't pay any attention to me. And and I just went, I feel so close. And I was a pastor for many, many years, and so I didn't get that opportunity as often as I wanted. But just being next to her, watching her in her relationship with God and worship. And we go to a similar church type background that you do where there's going to be great worship. And and I love to worship. But I love doing it with her. Yeah, it's funny because it draws me closer together. Kathy, if she was here and we were talking about marriage, we're going to do a marriage conference here pretty quick together. And she oftentimes says, if you pray together, that's sexy. I don't see that as sex as sexy. But for her, praying with me is sexy. OK, and that's a good thing because I'm not all that look. I don't look all that sexy. But, you know, it's interesting how that is. It's one of the five sex needs of women in a book called The Five Sex Needs of Men and Women by Gary Rossburg and and is and is wonderful wife. And I think how interesting that, you know, in sexual intimacy and intimacy with God go hand in hand. I want to encourage, you know, many of the people who listen to this, most of them are probably Christians. They know that I'm a Christian, but there's a lot of people who don't. And I want to encourage them to actually, you know, consider leaning into their faith. And I'm not going to say that just because you go to church now, you're going to have great sex spark, you know, back to the movie registration that Chanti talked about. But the fact is, is that it can enhance your relationship. And what's great about it is people like yourself who are who research this stuff. You have it documented as a part to us just kind of going, oh, go to church. You'll have a better marriage. It does matter. I mean, it just statistically it does. And if I could just give one encouragement, right, you were talking about the actual book, right, one of the things that we encourage people to do. And it helps with all of the above. It helps with all of the issues of what's going on in this under the surface and the intimate life that we have and in our relationship with God and in our relationship with each other. We encourage people to read the book to one another, to like literally go through it and be like, stop and say, is that true of you? Is that really how you think? Or, you know, you you learn, you know what? Actually here, the 80 80 percent said this 20 percent this, you know, I'm actually in the 20 percent. That's not accurate of me. And I'm a little bit different. And, oh, tell me more about that. And it is so and it doesn't even have to be our book, but pick a book on this topic, a Christian book written by somebody who has like the training like Dr. Sites and other sex therapists, because it will help you so much in your communication and your intimacy and your relationship. Yep, I totally agree with you, Kathy. And I had that early in our marriage. We read a book by the penners who, you know, Cliff and Joyce, and we read it out loud. We were on our way to a ski trip with kids, but we were in a separate car and we're laughing going the conversation we're having is really different than the conversation these high school kids are having that we're going to go on. But it was wonderful. And so, again, I say you pick up Secrets of Sex and Marriage by Shanti. It's a great book and it's a research book. So if you've got a spouse who is analytical or whatever, this is the kind of book you want to read because it gives great research and then it gives the answers. I really appreciate you being with us today. Thank you. You're just awesome. I want to I want to come back and I want to go through every piece of your content so that our listeners can can get that. So thanks so much for being with us. And again, the book is is called Sex Secrets of Sex and Marriage. Eight surprises that make all the difference. And you can get it at Shanti dot com, but you can also get it anywhere. Books are sold and get to know Shanti. If you if this is if she's new to you and she probably isn't to a lot of you. But if she is and get to know her, she is worth spending time with following and really one of the more wonderful people in the universe. Thank you so much. That's great, Jim. Thanks. Hey, before you go, let me just say a couple of things. I want to talk more about sexual intimacy, just kind of review what we've been thinking about, because I think this is so key for us. First of all, and I said it before, but if there is no emotional intimacy in a relationship, then there's really little sexual intimacy. You can have sex and not be intimate. You know that. But I really want to suggest that that you make sure that you are not the parent to your spouse and that you're not always correcting them, but literally you're their cheerleader and that you listen. Listening is the language of love. I find that what Kathy thinks is sexy is different than what I think is sexy sometimes, but it's definitely listening and listening is the language of love. And as I mentioned, the other thing I would just simply say is that make sure you do have time to talk about this. And if this is uncomfortable, so just take a baby step, but have that conversation. Your spouse should be the safest person you can have a conversation with about your intimate relationship. And so I suggest you do that. A couple of other things. One is I want to say that foreplay when was the last time you heard that word? But foreplay begins before you get to the bedroom. And and you know what? You're married, for goodness sakes. Flirt. And it's not just groping men, not groping men, but men groping your wife. But it's actually it is flirting and it's it's caring. It's kissing. You know, studies show that if somebody will kiss for 15 seconds, that that plays a big difference. That's intimate. There's even a movie, an old movie where the prostitute in the movie said, Oh, I don't I don't kiss my clients. I'll I'll have sex with them. But kissing is way too intimate. And you know what? Kiss your spouse. Spend time doing that. And I just want to encourage that. Initiate women. Tell your husband in the morning, hey, you got a chance here tonight, you know, what is he going to think about? All not the whole day. He's going to be thinking about that. And you made you didn't make a promise, but you did, you know, initiate a little bit. And then, I mean, you need to initiate. You need to initiate with touch, touch the vacuum, touch the folding laundry, touch the iron. If you iron, you know, touch and help out because a woman's life a lot of times needs to be partly together. And so if life's been chaotic and whatnot, she's not going to be ready for you. But if you if you come alongside and help, that's a that's a big thing. And then also, lastly, handle the delicate problems with care and with counsel. You know, the Bible says that where there is no counsel, the people fall within the multitude of counselors, there is safety. And I want to encourage you, if you're struggling in this area, then get some help. Talk to somebody. You know what? There's people who are out there who can help you in a big way. And usually it's a sex therapist or some. They're great people today. There's resources. You can do it online if you can't. If there's nobody in your area. Now, we don't have the kind of studies that that Shanti has. But at Homeward in our refreshing your marriage conferences with Doug Fields and myself and whoever else we have speaking at the time. You know, we did some studies a while back where we asked people, what are your top sex and passion killers? And I'm going to read them to you and then I'm going to quit. But number one is exhaustion and stress. OK, and this is in the order in which we got it. People are just said, you know what? I want to be intimate, but I'm just exhausted. And I'm filled with stress. And that means that sometimes our priorities are in place or it's the time of the season with the age of our kids. But exhaustion and stress, which of these relate to you? And you may want to share this with your spouse. Lack of physical affection, flirting, intimate conversation. They want that. People crave that too much to do. I mean, there is too busy. Somebody once said to me, if the devil can't make you bad, he'll make you busy. Where sometimes our busyness gets in the way of not only our relationship with God, but our relationship with our spouse, of course, emotional distance or even an intense conflict. A lot of people put that down. Lack of emotional or physical safety. I didn't see that one coming so quick up on our list, but it was there. Feeling underappreciated, negativity, constant criticism, and was another one, of course. And then the plumbing wasn't working. You know, what's the good news about all this is all of those sex and passion killers can be worked on and can improve. But you're going to have to lean into it. You're going to have to humble yourself. You're going to have to put yourself out there and have that conversation. Well, that's it's been a great podcast. It's been so wonderful to have Shanti with us. One woman wrote us recently and said this. You were mentoring me through difficult time in my marriage and family. That's what we want to do. Thank you for writing that. You can always go to our our voice line and ask a question, or you can make a comment. You can write us at Homewardinfoathomeward.com. And we love we'll read it all and we'll listen to it all. So, again, thanks so much for being a part of this podcast. And until next time, I'm Jim Burns. Thanks for listening. Homeward, helping families succeed. Welcome to Homeward. I'm Jim Burns and I'm so happy you joined us today for this very special podcast. We're talking about six secrets to a lasting love. Yes, it's possible even with some of the most difficult relationships to develop a relationship that thrives. We've got Gary and Barb Rosberg with us today and they are going to talk with us about really one of my favorite books from these two wonderful people and quick backstory on this. And I was telling them before we started, I actually read the book some time ago and underlined it, told all of my friends to buy it and use it. And you know, there was a we kind of had this group groupies of this particular book. I told Kathy to read it, but I didn't think she read it. And then this week I reread the book and I noticed that Kathy had read it because she underlines differently than I do and she makes comments. And so one of the comments that I just laughed at was yesterday. I saw the comment and said, Jim could use some help in this area. And I just loved it. So I got news for you. It sounds like Kathy and I will be having a conversation this weekend about her comment and then we'll have to go to Gary and Barb and get some coaching and counseling here. Hey, Dr. Gary and Barb Rosberg are sought after executive life and marriage coaches, award winning authors, beloved International Marriage Conference speakers and actually incredible people. Today the Rosbergs are co-founders of the for-profit, the Rosberg Group, where they provide marriage coaching as well as one-on-one executive life coaching. The Rosbergs also are the founders of an international ministry called America's Family Coaches. And that directly addresses the needs of marriages today. And remarkable insight and great, great biblical truth. I trust these people. I love these people. They're also the founders of something that has become very near and dear to my heart. It's called Impact Iowa's Heroes. And I got a chance to be a part of one of their programs and it's designed to honor and strengthen marriages of Iowa's first responders and military personnel. And I'm telling you, it was so meaningful to me. I told people it was one of the most meaningful experiences I had all year last year. I just absolutely loved it. They've spoken nationally, internationally together for 35 years. Over 22 years they co-hosted their national radio broadcast, which was broadcast all over the country. They've spoken to military couples since 2006, written what, a dozen prominent marriage and family resources. They've got over a million total copies in print worldwide. Today we're going to talk about Divorce Proof Your Marriage. They've been married since 1975. They're not going to look at it. If you go on our YouTube channel and you see this on YouTube, they don't look like they've been married that long. And they have two adult daughters and 12, count that, 12 grandchildren. And they reside just outside of Des Moines, Iowa. Gary and Barb, welcome to the podcast. So glad to have you with us. Thank you so much. This is awesome, Jim. We just wish Kathy was in there with you. No, no, I don't want her here. If she was here, she was going to say, well, Jim needs help on this. And she'd change the whole conversation we were having. Dr. Hendrick said another perfect illustration ruined by an eyewitness. I will steal that from you. I've stolen it from you. I stole it from him. And I'll just tell you that that is actually hilarious. Now that's awesome. Well, I respect you and I admire you both so much. And I remember the exact day. It was actually a Promise Keepers because you would do something on marriage. I came on at Promise Keepers later when do something on parenting. And I remember you talking about an incredible story that you have where your daughter, Sarah, was young and now she's, of course, an adult, but she had drawn a picture of the family and she showed you that picture, even though you were really busy and doing a lot of things. Tell us that story. Well, I was finishing my doctorate and I was working on my dissertation and been in school, like you know, for 10, 11 years. And I was just so preoccupied with this dissertation. And Sarah came up and said, can I show you my picture? And I kind of dismissed her and said, daddy's really focused. And she said, I know you're preparing for your oral defense. And because she had heard Barb say that, you know, countless times. And so I finally said, Sarah, show me the picture. She unraveled this piece of typing paper and there was Barb, there was Sarah, she was five or six at the time, Missy, her little two or three year old sister, the family dog. And I said, this is awesome. I'm going to hang this up on the fridge. And every night when I come home from studying and all the stuff I'm doing, I'll look at that when I eat my dinner. And I went back to studying and something began to gnaw at me. And something was wrong with that picture. So I went back and got her and she said, daddy, don't you like my picture? And I said, well, sweetheart, I love your picture, but there's mom, there's you, there's Missy. Where's your dad? And she looked at me and you've met her with this beautiful face and she was just this little girl with naive brown eyes. And she just said, you're at the library studying. And. And that was a long time ago. Yeah. But no matter how often I reflect on that, I realize my failure as a dad, not being there. And it wasn't a commission of some overt sin. I just wasn't there. And Barb was doing nine people's jobs, taking care of our family while I was off finishing this training. And, and so I put the picture on the fridge. Several weeks later, Barb had our house full with all our professors and other doctoral candidates. And after our graduation, our family, nobody said a word about the picture, Jim. I mean, it hung there and I hung it. And several weeks later, Barb was laying in bed and I went into the bedroom. The lights were out. It was pitch black in there. I was in, I was too much of a coward to turn on the light switch. And I said three or four things. Number one, are you sleeping? She said, no. And when she said no, I thought rats. Cause I was kind of rehearsing. And then I said, did you see the picture? And you said, yes. And then I said, Barb, I just want to come home to my family. And I remember Barb said, Gary, I love you. The girls love you, but nobody knows Gary Ross. And I said, I want me to come home. I'm coming home. And it started as kind of a whisper. And I started to back out of the room. And as a Holy spirit was just convicting me and God was coming down, Jim, because I was, I was, I didn't know what the heck I was doing. And I just said, I am coming home and went downstairs and took my Bible and laid out on that green shag carpet, which is why we could never sell that stupid house and cried out to Holy God. And it took me two years, Jim, to work my way home. Um, and I would, uh, I played Candyland with Missy and I hate Candyland. Just for the record. Um, I would go out to broccoli sandwiches at a health food store with Sarah and Barb, it was date nights. Uh, but two years later, I'm Missy who's now the mother of five came to me and she said, dad, I got a present for you. And I said, what is it? She said, it's a picture of our family. I said, I don't do pictures of our family. You know, give me a lobotomy or please not another picture. And, and I'm in the middle of that picture and that picture hangs in my study. And Jim, as we talk about divorce proof, your marriage and the six secrets to a lasting love. And, um, that picture has been ground zero of a worldwide ministry. That whether it's on a platform, but more importantly, when it's just talking to a guy that is saying, can I do this? Um, I say, well, I've done it and it's, it's arduous, it's tough, but you can do it. Yeah. It's a, you know, I feel the emotion, even as you shared that from so long ago. Barb, what were you feeling during that time? What was it like? You actually have a section in the book, drug, uh, divorce. I wrote a book called drug proof, your kids. So I just said instead of divorce proof, your marriage, but, but you, you had a phrase, uh, that I thought was pretty interesting in, in the book, you say full-time mom, uh, full-time pain. Was that what you were feeling during that time? Absolutely. In fact, uh, you know, I think every wife will tell her husband what she needs. She is a walking, talking marriage manual. Gary Smalley said that by the way, and he was right. And if a man really wants to take his marriage to the next level, all he has to do is turn to the expert in his home and she will gladly tell him. So, you know, a year down the road, two years, three years, four years, we were on a cycle and it was like, we were a two trains just out of control. And you know, you can take a lot and go through a lot of seasons in a married marriage couple, but when you pack season upon season, you'll break down. One day I was vacuuming and I thought, dear God, please help my husband. You know, and every day it was the same prayers. One day I turned off my vacuum and I thought, why am I the only one working on this marriage? That's the most dangerous thing I said, because I quit working. And when I quit working, I quit trying. And somehow for women, when we quit trying, this is where a walkaway wife will start. She may not say anything, but she does less. She may not speak out a lot, but her husband thinks, good, she got over it. Not so. When a woman quits talking, she quits trying. And they say that within six months, if a woman doesn't change her thoughts, she'll be gone. And when a woman chooses to be gone, she is gone. There's no turning back. So what did I go through? I went through a lot of pain. I went through a lot of pleading over my family. Got to tell you, as I look back, that it formed me into a prayer warrior. It reduced me down to my knees. So when we go through these failures, when we go through these hurts and pains, and it seems like God's not answering our prayers, Jim, it's truly a great gift because God's doing something that only he can do. I encourage anybody listening to me that identifies with this. Stand back, be still, and let God do the work for you. Because ultimately, when God spoke to Gary, he had done the work in his heart. It wasn't my words, because if it's just your wife's words, why, that's not going to go very far. But when God does the work, get out of the way. It's for a lifetime. Gary changed. I got to tell you this. He starts telling everybody. And I thought, Gary, it was hard enough to live through once. Why do we have to talk about it? Well, because that's where we all live. Yeah, no, that's so important. You had a phrase in your book, and both of you, either one can speak to this, but there was a phrase that said, legally married, emotionally divorced. Now, you're not just talking about you all, but that sounds like you were legally married and emotionally divorced during a time. What do you say to the person who feels like they're legally married, emotionally divorced? Well, I'd like to qualify. We weren't at the base of the marital map, like you're referring to, because there are several stops that go down there. Right. We were disconnected. We were discouraged. Were we beyond discouraged on the marital map? Yeah, and we have a marital map. And it's actually my next question. Help us understand that. Well, we'll go there and then we'll get to the emotionally. We'll go to the next part. We'll go to the emotionally divorced. Wonderful. Well, help me understand that. Our editor introduces to the term entropy. And I don't remember that in science class, but entropy is everything that's alive is dying. And his premise, and he said, Gary and Barbara, you got to address this in this book, is that a relationship, a marriage relationship that is not being intentionally nurtured is going to die. And so it erodes. And so we drew a picture of a mountain and then looked at several stages of erosion that if you don't purposely remedy that, then you're going to be stuck. So it starts with disappointment. So you go from this marriage dream to being just disappointed in one another. And then you become a little bit discouraged. You know, and then you become a little bit. Some despair kicks in and then disconnect kicks in. And ultimately, emotional divorce kicks in. And if we don't take care of it at emotional divorce, then you have the legal divorce. And yet we tell people, Jim, even if you're legally divorced, we're going to pray that you come back home afterwards. And it's surprising how many people have done that because they get on the other side of it. And they go, well, this isn't all it's cracked up to be because one of the problems is with them and it's them. And so when they become teachable to that and they turn back towards one another. And so we were disconnected. We were discouraged. We were feeling some despair. But we were still fighting for. But we were fighting for our marriage. And and then we developed these six secrets on how to restore a relationship, whether it's a couple or a or a group of couples like military or first responders or a church or a community to give people hope that they can draw a line and say, well, here's where we're at. Let's do a gut check. But what can we do? And Barbara and I are pretty pragmatic on things we can do. Yeah. And you're one of the things I, which I really appreciated in your in your book was you. Yeah. You had the negative side where you get to to this, but you didn't just leave us there. No. So, OK, here's how you build this back up. Here's where you may may be. Now, for the for the person who's saying, wait, they just described my marriage. They just described my life. And there's a whole lot of people who feel that way. Yeah. And we can't go through all of the we don't have time to go through everything. If you were going to give them one bit of hope, where do you start? Yeah. Well, here's the great news. It starts with one person who is willing to respond to the conviction of their heart. And to surrender. And so, Jim, what we have coached people for decades is often what we try to do is get people to work on the horizontal relationship. But what we have concluded is if you don't work on the vertical relationship first. So a man submitting to Christ, a woman submitting to Christ. And then what Barb and I describe is it's like it splashes over those two vertical relationships onto the relationship that gives hope to restore hope. And so when I look at a couple, just as you've done in your counseling, that their back is up against the wall. They've made a mess of it. They're hurting. And they say, can one person restore this relationship? You're doggone right. One person can start now. Ultimately, take two. Yes. But when one person and it doesn't have to be any fancier than this, but they go to the foot of the cross and they are on their face like I was on my face in 1983. In Des Moines, Iowa on the green shag carpet, crying out to Holy God, God help me just help me do this. And it took two years before Missy gave me that other picture. So it's not quick. There's nothing quick about it. But when there's conviction, when there's confession, when there's contrition and that surrender. And then we enter into the restoration of the relationship. And you never know, Jim, this what we've told people on radio for decades as well. You never know when your spouse is going to look over the corner of their shoulder. And if we are acting and just this is what I tell people, if you're acting the fool. So if you're withholding financial support, if you're sneaking and looking in the window, if you're blaming, if you're shaming, if you're now posting stuff on social media about your spouse, if you're doing anything to be eroding that relationship or blowing it up, your spouse, just when they think they're willing to try to take a shot at this thing to restore it. And what we need to be doing is unto Christ, we need to be walking. It's what Psalm 15, we need to be the man on that holy hill that keeps us old, even when it hurts. Yeah, that's so, so, so good. As Gary was going through that process, Barb, was that was that exciting to you? You watched him, you know, kind of make some turns. Yeah. How did you feel about that? I mean, that was what was going on in your. Oh, I was scared. Jim is what I prayed for. It's what I longed for. You know, you know what I had to deal with? I had been in control of every aspect of our home, our children, our budget. If things were needing to be repaired, I did it all or I had to get the help to do it all. So the first thing I realized is like the spirit of God descended upon our home and was doing this wonderful work. And all of a sudden I identified I'm not. I hate to say this because some women might get offended, but oh, well, but I didn't. I was not surrendering any control to my husband. And all of a sudden I thought, wait a minute, this has been all about him for years. What's this got to do about me? Well, this was the God thing. And if I may please go ahead. We were watching our oldest daughter, Sarah, played a basketball game. Cutest thing you ever saw in your world in your life. These little kids running around just say, do you want the ball? Do you want the ball? I'll give you the ball. You know, it's not Caitlin Clark, but anyway, it was adorable. One day I realized somebody, the coach and the team was giving Sarah a chance to have the ball. She's like her mom. She's not much of an athlete, but I know where she doesn't get it. So they were saying, let Sarah have the ball. Let Sarah have the ball. Holy Spirit spoke to me and said, they're giving up control of winning so that Sarah will go home with such a strong self-esteem. I drove home that day. Holy Spirit was filling the car. I was tearful. Sarah said, man, that was the greatest game of my whole life. You know, and I realized I needed to bring that spirit of giving up, of being in charge, being in control to this man. Who God was doing this beautiful work in. So I had to change. Yeah. You know, it's interesting because, you know, it's a marriage illustration, but when you look at recovery, you look at people who are drug addicts or alcoholics, you know, once they get helped and they get healed, a lot of times it's the codependent or the other person who went, what am I going to do? They know their normal changed. Right. And I, and I think that's the case. That's why I appreciate you say that, that, you know, it takes one person to start this. Actually, it takes two to finish it off, but it takes one person to start it. And I really appreciate the spirituality you talk about. You know, Kathy and I just celebrated our 50th. Yeah. I know you're in Europe until, until just a couple of days ago. And, and we have often said to people, and it sounds so trite sometimes, but we wouldn't be married if it wasn't for God. Amen. Came from dysfunctional families and we didn't grow up in the, in with great models and because of what God has done in our life. And, and really, I appreciate you putting the, the energy and the focus on, no, get your, get your own life together. Yeah. And, and then your marriage is going to improve too. Listen, we're going to take a quick break. We'll be right back. A great conversation today. So, so good. And anyway, we'll take a quick break. We'll be right back. We're talking to Gary and Barb Ross, all the information on a divorce proof, your marriage and all the great stuff that they do. It's all in the show notes. Go to those show notes, take a look and get to know them. As you can tell, it's incredible, incredible content that they provide. So we'll take a quick break. We'll be right back and more to come. When we come back, we're going to talk actually about some of those principles to, to keep your marriage intact and, and not going the other way. We'll be right back. Hey, I'm Kelly Fellows. Did you know that Homeward also has resources for parents and married couples? You can find all those resources at our website, homeward.com. Also check out our YouTube channel where we create a one minute video vitamins to encourage parents and to resource couples. Check those all out at YouTube forward slash Homeward and also our website, homeward.com. Now let's get back to our podcast. Welcome back. I'm Jim Burns. What a great conversation we're having with Gary and Barb Ross Berg on this podcast. Remember all information is in the show notes. And remember I've said a couple of times, kind of using two different names, you know, divorce proof, your marriage. Is the book that I first read from them. It's now called six secrets to a lasting love and it's been updated and it has some great content. And again, that's kind of where, that's where we've been talking about hearing Barb before we get back into the conversation though, about this book. I want you to tell us a little bit about something you co-founded called impact. I was heroes. Yeah. Like I said, I spoke at it last year. I walked in on a Friday night. I remember I was, my plane was delayed or I missed the flight or something. And I got there right at a time when you were honoring these people. I actually cried. I was sitting by myself. I was sitting next to a, to a police officer and his wife who somehow knew someone that had, that had been, which you honored who had, who had actually lost their life that year. I mean, it was incredible. I mean, talk about that. Let our listeners know about this. Well, Jim, it, I mean, someday it'll be led in California and maybe your team will do it. Um, in 2016, five police officers had line of duty deaths within nine months in central Iowa. So two were assassinated in their cars within seven minutes of each other from a mentally ill man. Um, two were incinerated transporting a prisoner by a drunk driver, hit him on I 80, um, and they all died. And then the fifth one was hit on his motorcycle. And we were watching Dana Winger, the Des Moines police department chief, um, the news at the fifth funeral. And I never met Dana, great guy, uh, beloved police chief. And he was pounding the table, just saying, this has got to stop. This has got to stop. And it was November 2nd, 2016, the same day, my Chicago Cubs won the world series, which will never happen again. And Barb said, Gary, um, why don't you just call him and go do something about this? And cause we help military and wounded military. And I just said, well, I don't know the guy. She said, well, just call him. So I called him and he gave me an hour. And he has many times publicly said, and you have to give me some grace on this, but he said that hour was most significant hour of my career. And it wasn't because of Gary Rossburg. And we've told his 350 policemen this. Um, it's because he loves them and he loves these families and he's got integrity and they love them. The community loves them. And this guy was, was moved. And so we just said, we're going to go to some businesses, get some money, and we're going to just, um, welcome these people and get a fancy hotel and meals and brought in a top notch comedian. And then we designed challenge coins, Jim. And that's what you saw in Des Moines. And we brought the families up on the platform. So you can imagine being the widow and the kids and the parents of these people that have been assassinated or, or died. And, and we, um, we not only honor them. And it's such a disarming thing because they're standing on that platform. Like, you know, if only my spouse was here and see this, but then we bring up every cop and we have cops come up on the platform. And they give challenge coins to every cop. Then we bring up every firefighter, then every military service person, then every EMT, then every dispatcher. Then when we're all done with that, we start bringing up the spouses. And so you bring up the cops, spouses and male or female or firefighter. And so for 30 minutes and your hands were sore and your eyes were sore because our hands were sore and ours are sore. We're all clapping and we're all just sobbing because you see a community that puts their life on the line every day being honored. And so we called it Impact. I was heroes. It's, it's going to catch on to another stage. I've passed the baton of leadership to Aaron Grove. So he's running the show. And it's, it's, it's going to be better than ever because we passed the baton. It really is. I mean, I came back, I took notes and then I gave it to a man here who works with military. He's a marriage and family counselor and does great things, is doing retreats and things like that. And he said, wow, I've not heard of something like this. So, so, so, so, so, so good. Thank you for sharing that. And people, and people go on the, on a website and look at Impact. I was heroes. Can they? Impact. I was heroes.org. I think it's just, it's just, it's just incredible. Now let me go back to, to your book. I'm six secrets of a lasting love. Um, there are chapters on forgiving love, serving love, uh, persevering love, guarding love, celebrating love, renewing love. I think I got them all. You got them all. Um, and, and I wanted to ask a question, a personal question to you, Gary, because I think almost every time I have ever talked to you or even an email, you'll a lot of times end it with guard your heart, you know, and I'm imagining that comes out of the, the proverb that says guard your heart above all else for determines the course of your life. Yes. Talk about guarding love. Yeah. Well, I was at a CBA, Steve Green was singing, you remember Steve, and I was sitting with Brenda Jones from Multnomah Publishers and he was singing the song, guard your, uh, guard your heart. And she turned to me and she said, you know, Gary, that seems to be kind of your passion helping guys. Cause I was speaking to men and promise keepers and all that stuff. And, um, and so I grabbed onto that. Um, and so it is, it's Proverbs 4, 23. It's the only time in scripture, the words are ever used above all else. Guard your heart for it's the wellspring of life and, and the scripture, uh, and I did a book on that title for Multnomah. Um, and they asked me to really break down and study every word in that passage and then write it from a contemporary perspective. But here's what we know is that marriages are under attack. Jim, ours are you and Kathy, your kids, our kids, and our grandkids behind them. Every marriage is under attack and it's either under frontal assault with things like, uh, financial misappropriations or sexual stuff and lust or control like Barb talked about her anger, or it's the sneak attacks of passivity or kind of getting wonky and moving from a searching for significance to trying to be successful, all those things that he rode. And so one of our intentions is to help men and women realize they aren't living in a passive way in their marriage. They have an enemy and just as God is for them, Satan wants to destroy them. And so we don't need to be afraid of that, but we need to be wise and we need to guard our own heart and help our spouse guard the heart of the marriage. Yeah. No, that, that, that is such an important part of love. What was one of the, you know, I talked about the other answers, Barb, Barb, what, what are the, when you're talking about, you know, serving love and, and forgiving love and all those, which would be one that would just come to your mind? Well, the real powerhouse, I don't care where you're at in your marriage, um, either very, very positive or in a deficit situation, it begins with forgiveness. It begins with, uh, privately confessing your own sin, your own mistakes. Uh, I love the script scripture that says confess your sins to one another because the prayers of a righteous man will be healed. I'm missing a big chunk of that. Reality is this, when I confess my sins to God, he will take what I've done and he will give me the grace, the mercy. He'll give me the divineness to get up off my face, receive that grace and mercy and to press on. This is where it begins in marriage. As we see couples that have been down and out anything, and we begin to realize, um, what I did own, what I did in the marriage. This is where the power is. So often we see couples that are blaming or accusing or without intentionally being so they're the victim. So here's the reality. As much as we can own, as much as we can say, I confess, then I've got the power through Christ to have new strength. And then when I experience the choosing to forgive my spouse, now, look, he may never change, but I will, because I love in scripture where it says, as we forgive others, God forgives us. And there's a newness of vitality. We could speak for hours on forgiveness, but Gary, wouldn't you say that forgiveness is truly the powerhouse? Well, it is. In Romans 12, 18, Paul says, as far as it depends upon you, comma, whenever possible, comma, be at peace with everyone. No, that's, that's how you let out. You all let out on for, with forgiveness. And we do rightly so exactly. And, uh, not, not always easy. I think a lot of marriages get stopped right there because they're not willing to forgive. And sometimes you have to work through issues. If there's big time issues, it's not like you forgive and forget, but you've got to work through it, but it's, you know, there was a woman who once said, you know, not forgiving, uh, is, or forgive, if you're not forgiving somebody, it's like drinking rat poison and waiting for the other person to die. Yeah. Yeah. And I think we have to be so careful with that. What, what's the myth of what you call the 50 50 marriage? Well, we are lousy scorekeepers. So if, if I say, Barb, you do 50, I'll do 50. And then I'm kind of ticked off and I only do 49, then she does 47. I do 45. Um, that's where that thing breaks down. So if I, um, am pouring myself out as much as I can, because I'm a prideful, you know, silly guy sometimes, but if I'm pouring myself out and, and endeavoring to out serve Barb. And she unto Christ, not unto me, but under Christ is, is loving me. And we're each doing that. Then somehow that bridges and somehow it connects Jim. And, and that's not our flush doing that. That's our willingness to realize that we're doing it unto our calling unto God to be faithful and to love one another with all of the warts and shortcomings and all the stuff that we all bring to the table. No, I appreciate that. No, I appreciate bringing that. I actually thought when I first got married, I thought it was a 50 50 deal. Yeah. And it's never been, you know, I mean, there's times when Kathy has carried our marriage 75, 25 or greater and times when I have, and, and what I've realized is that, no, we need to serve one another, which great chapter you have in the book on that, um, and, and submit to one another. I mean, that's what we do. That's what it is. And you do it out of reverence for Christ. And I appreciate, I appreciate that so much. I can't believe that time's up. I just want to tell the listeners, listen, go get the book. Okay. And the reason I'm saying that is because we hardly got into some of the great chapters on the book. It's called six secrets to a lasting love used to be called drug proof or skewed. It used to be called divorce proof, your marriage. And I really, I really challenge you to get it. It's a very powerful, powerful book as well as all the other things that they do. And you can find all of that, uh, in our show notes and you'll learn all kinds of things about them, Gary and Barb. Thank you so much for being with us. Our honor. We love you, Jim. Thank you. Yeah. Well, thank you. Hey, listen, before we go, I want to tell you a story. Uh, I was speaking at an event. It was at a hotel called the montage. It's kind of fancy hotel and Kathy was sitting at a table with me and a couple came and they were, they were older and one had a walker and I didn't know them. But I knew about them. They've been incredible philanthropists in the world and, uh, and they had a neat marriage. I said, how long have you been married? They said 60 years. And I thought to myself, why are you at this marriage conference? And what can I offer you? Right. And, uh, I said, what is the secret to your marriage success? And it was Helen and Lee and Helen kind of looked and kind of flirted with her husband, which was so cool. They had to be over 80. And, uh, she said, well, Lee, do you remember what I said to you on the day of our, of our wedding? And he said, I do. And she goes, no, you don't. She goes, no, I do. Well, what did I, what did I say then? And Lee said, you said, I'm going to out love you every day of our life. And, uh, and I was like, oh my gosh, I got chills just hearing that. And then Lee said, but what did I say to you, Helen? And Helen said, well, you said, no, I'm going to out love you every day of our life. And that's the secret. It hasn't always been easy. They said, but the secret is to try to outdo one another and showing love to each other. And that's what we've talked about today on this, on this podcast. I really want to challenge you to, to be people who, who out love one another as you can. And you can get a lot of help from, from the Rossburg. So persevere, love, forgive, guard your heart. It's, it's, it's worth it. Until next time, I'm Jim Burns and you've been listening and watching homework. Hey, welcome to the Homeward podcast today. My name is Jim Burns and it is an honor that you're with us. This is a big, big week for us. What's happening is, and I've told many people this, that the most exciting book I've ever written, and I've written a few, is coming out. It's a book called A Student's Guide to Sexual Integrity. I never thought I would write another book to students, and I did with the help of a wonderful woman named Erin Mascha, who's going to be on our podcast. And she helped me write the right words as we talk about sexual integrity with students. And I want to say right from the beginning that if your child is in the car, you're listening to this podcast in the car, you've got it on, maybe you want to put some earbuds on or listen to it at another time. It's not going to be too much. Some people would think it's still PG, but we are going to maybe use a word or phrase that you're not happy about with your kids being so young. But listen to what I have to say. Now this is one of these just gems. This is my second just gem, which means you only got me this time. I've got Erin on next week and we'll talk more about this, but we're going to kind of do a little series on teaching your children healthy sexuality. And that's exactly what the subject is on today. You know, there was a great thinker who really impressed me back in the 1970s. Yes, I'm old. And his name was Francis Schaeffer. Francis Schaeffer said this about the gospel, actually. He said to every generation, we need to re-communicate how we communicate the gospel. We don't change the gospel, but we change how we communicate it to this next generation. And that's what I'm going to try to do for you as a parent today. It's definitely what we tried to do in a student's guide to sexual integrity was re-communicate because Christians have a bad rap on talking about something that God actually created. It's his idea, sex and sexuality, but we're also awkward about it. So that's why I wanted to just kind of have a you and me conversation. Again, I'm so grateful for Erin Mascha, who will be on the podcast next week. And she helped me with with wording and phrasing. And she also created an incredible video series. The information is in our show notes. And the video is done not with my face, but with some amazing younger generation people communicating to a younger generation on important things. And it's not just your talking heads. It's just awesome. So you'll want to take a look at that course, too. Well, speaking of awkward, because it is awkward to talk about this, let me just start by asking you a question. I wish I could see you because then you could put your hands up and show me. Many times I'll say when I'm speaking on this subject, which is quite often in my ministry, but I'd say to you, how many of you received good, positive, value centered sex education from your parents when you were growing up? Now I was just at a event called Windshape. It's the foundation for Chick-fil-A. And I asked some parents, I was doing a marriage conference, but I asked them, how many of you received good, positive, healthy sex education from your parents? And you know what? One person raised their hand. It was actually the worship leader. Nobody else raised their hand. So out of a group of hundreds, no one raised their hand. But here's what is so key. And I've mentioned this before on the podcast, but here's what's so key. All research shows this, whether you are liberal or conservative, whether you are Christian or not, the research shows this, that the more positive value centered sex education kids receive from their parents, the less promiscuous and listen to this, the less confused they will be. So when you were growing up, if your parents didn't talk to you, they weren't the safest people to talk about sex to or if you had questions. But what we want in this generation is for parents to have those awkward questions. They're going to be awkward. My daughter, Christy, said not too long ago we were talking about this. Yeah, you talked to us, but it was awkward because you were awkward, Dad. And I get it. I've spoken to hundreds of thousands of students on this subject and adults now, too. But yet, talking to my own kids, I stuttered in my bald head sweat and I had ears that turned red. It was just kind of goofy. So anyway, what I want to do with you is help you understand from this generation, not talking about the past, not talking about things that people were all upset about, the purity culture or other things. Let's talk about how do we communicate with our kids today about a healthy value centered sexuality and know that that's your job. So if you're letting the school systems do it, then you're wrong. It's not the school system's fault. They're doing that because parents haven't been talking about it. If you're just allowing the church to do it, it's not just the church's job. It's the church's job to come alongside you and you come alongside them and make this thing happen. But I want to start with really the goal in mind. And I call this the integrity code. And the integrity code goes like this. In honor of God, so we're going to bring God into this picture, my family and my future that God has planned for me, I commit to live out my life with sexual integrity. I love that statement. So in honor of God, my relationship with God. So what's the biggest voice in their mind? It's the loudest voice is probably the culture. But actually, God's voice is the authority. And we want to hear that. Our family, we're going to bring our family in. Just with what I just said, the more positive value centered sex education kids receive from the family, then the less promiscuous. And by the way, as a grandparent now, I'm finding that that's an important conversation that I need to continue to have with my grandkids as well, not teaching or preaching, but actually just dialoguing with them. I would rather have you have 101 minute conversations with your kids about this subject than one 100 minute conversation, if you know what I'm saying. So anyway, that's the integrity code. What if kids live by the integrity code? Well, it has four biblical values here. Number one is you honor God with your body. Number two is you renew your mind for good. So honor God with your body comes from 1 Corinthians 6 20. It's literally honor God with your body. And Romans 12, one and two says renew your mind for good. So that's the second part of this is the mind. The mind is the most powerful sex organ we have. It's not our private parts. It's our mind. And today, kids need to have a mindset that is biblical and not negative about sex because God created sex. And he sees it as good, again, in the context of marriage, because he has some guardrails there. The next one is turn your eyes from worthless things taken right out of the scripture. It's found in the book of Psalms, Psalm 119. 37 says turn your eyes from worthless things. So what we do with our eyes, how we how I mean, this sounds like I'm old fashioned, but you know, teaching guys and girls about dress and about approach and all that kind of stuff. And then what we do with our eyes, of course, we could spend all day talking about pornography and some of the kinds of things that people are allowing into their eyes, which those then goes into their mind and is destroying a healthy view of sexuality. So turn your eyes from worthless things. We've got to teach them to do that. And then also guard your heart. The Bible says in Proverbs 423, guard your heart above all else for determines the course of your life. Well, we could spend the entire session talking about that. How do we learn to guard our heart in our course that we have on a student's guide for one of the young leaders is standing by some guardrails. And he told a story where he said, you know, I live in I lived in Phoenix, Arizona, and I would go to California and I'd have to go over these big mountains. And he's standing next to this guardrail. He said, and every time we're in these mountains, there were these things called guardrails. We never realized we needed them until, you know, one day we kind of spun out. We slipped into the guardrail. Well, we need guardrails. And so how do we guard our heart? So even times I find that parents who say, yeah, my my parents did talk to me about sex and sexuality, but they'll say, no, my parents didn't talk to me about how to guard my heart. And again, that's not just a scripture on sex and sexuality, but it's a great scripture to learn to guard our heart about, you know, all kinds of great things. And let me lead with what I call the four principles. And this is where when we're talking about we have to re communicate the gospel instead of making it and re communicate how we talk about sex and sexuality to is it. We don't change the gospel. We don't change, you know, what the Bible says about sex and sexuality. But let's do it in a different way. OK, let's be kinder, gentler. So first of all, we lead with love. That's the message of Jesus. Jesus always led with love. He didn't agree with the prostitute who, you know, he ended up having a ministry to. He didn't agree with the tax collectors. He didn't agree with people who were going against the morality of the day. But he led with love. So can't we lead with love? One should be the greatest leaders of love. Secondly is kindness matters. Kindness simply matters. And so can't we do this with kindness? We get all upset and I understand it. We're angry. We're frustrated. But let's do it with kindness. We're not going to bring anybody to our view if we're not kind. So is it possible to be kind and still hold a biblical worldview? Yes, it is. OK. Thirdly, and I think this is a really key one, is to make sure that we understand that our kids understand that you're created in God's image. The Bible is very clear. We were created in God's image. A man and a woman was created in the image of God. And that's just not like how we look. The image is actually, especially this beautiful illustration in the Old Testament, where image means it's your heart. It's your inside. And so we want to make sure that they know that God created them. They weren't just made from something else, but that God created them. And when God created them, he said, this is good. In fact, he didn't just say this is good. He said, this is very good. And then also, as kids go through these stages, the fourth principle of this is God loves you unconditionally. And I know sometimes people don't like me saying this because I'll say even if you're in the middle of some kind of a crazy sin, sin just means don't get weirded out about and just means to miss the mark. And so you're not living by God's way. But if you're in the middle of that, know that God loves you unconditionally, not for what you do, but for who you are. You're his child. Does that mean he agrees with all the stuff we do? No, no, he's got, you know, there are scriptural principles, especially on sexuality, but there are guardrails. But God loves you unconditionally. And that's the way we kind of, I think, want to communicate that. Now, here's the issue is today's parent has different struggles than even the parent, my parents in my day, because, you know, it was intense, but it wasn't as intense as it is today. So kids are going to make sexual decisions. Now, you may have a five year old and you say, how does this relate to me? Oh, oh, please, please hear this, because kids are making decisions about sexuality at a much younger age today. Remember, I said that the average kid is seeing pornography at age 11. For boys, it's age 10. You can Google me on that, but that's what it says. And with that, they're making these decisions early. So we need to know this as parents. So number one is peer pressure or the pressure to conform. So there are people whispering into the ear into the heads of ears, I should say. There are people whispering into the ears of of kids, our kids, and they're giving them some kind of weird stuff. I know a young woman. I write about this in the book on a student's guide to sexual integrity, a young woman who she'd never she didn't even know what a lesbian was. She was a sixth grader and her friend said, hey, I think I'm a lesbian. I just learned about two weeks ago. I'm a lesbian. And she goes, and I think you're a lesbian. She was what's a lesbian? Well, this peer pressure continued until she thought she was a lesbian and she acted it out for about a year and a half with this girl and actually with some other girls. And then she kind of woke up one day went, I don't think I'm a lesbian. See. So what had happened was she had moved because of peer pressure. It's the same when a boy and a girl go too far physically. Many times it's because they're being prepped to do that by even some of their friends and some of the voices of the culture. So, again, they make that decision because of peer pressure. But there's negative peer pressure, but there's also positive peer influence. And that's where where you can come in as a parent by making sure that your kids are in a youth group or are in place. That doesn't mean it's going to be perfect there, but that they're they're involved with some positive peer influence, especially when it comes to sex and sexuality. Here's another one that why kids are making sexual decisions. Listen this carefully that their emotional involvement exceeds their maturity level. So let's let's let's point out a 14 year old girl. I had all girls. Their their emotional involvement exceeds their maturity level, so they don't know how to say stop. No, they put themselves in a crummy situation there with a boy and a girl. They're both Christians and the young man, he doesn't know how to handle his hormones. And, you know, they get up at inspiration point somehow. And the next thing you know, they're going farther and farther physically. So their emotional involvement exceeds their maturity level. So we need to teach them something. Parents have to talk. Parents have to give them input so that when they get to that situation, they're not going to compromise their morals or their values. But that's what's happening all the time. And then the last one is simply lack of information. So that's why we're talking about this so strongly is, as we said, this is now the third or fourth time I've said it, but research shows that the more positive value centered sex education kids receive from home, the less promiscuous and less confused they'll be. OK, can I say it any clearer? So they need information and they need information from you. We parents sometimes put, especially we Christian parents, we'll put down the culture, we'll put down the schools, we'll put down all these other things, and then we won't have the conversation ourselves. What's that about? So you be the leading, safe person to have those kind of conversations. OK, and I think that's really key because kids get so much so many mixed messages from their parents. They're getting silence or don't do it from and that's not helping them. They need more. What did I say? I'd rather have one hundred one minute conversations than one one hundred minute conversation. And so, again, you're going to give them some information. But as parents, they don't hear that church, what they think they hear at the church. This isn't happening as much at the church these days. But what they think they're hearing is don't do it because it's dirty, rotten, horrible, ugly. So save that dirty, rotten, horrible, ugly thing until you're married and then it's going to be great. And you got a lot of people who waited and then they go, you know, it wasn't so great. So, again, the church doesn't want to be the great killjoy. God is not the great killjoy, although he does have guardrails, very clear guardrails when it comes to what I'm going to call a theology of healthy sex education, that you don't have sex before marriage. I actually I know I'm old fashioned, but I don't believe you should have sex before marriage. Why? Because you become instantly bonded with that person. And when you become instantly bonded, it fools you into instant intimacy. And there's a lot of people who are getting married, not because they were in love. They were just infatuation. But then all of a sudden, the dopamine and the all the pleasure hormones start coming in and they get mistaken and they end up marrying. And then they wonder why they're not happy. So, again, the church, one of the reasons why kids get that mixed message is they think the church is bad. And then the culture, I don't think the culture is the voice we want to listen to because the culture is saying this is how you do it. And the culture is saying, do it and do it with anybody you want. And, you know, it's probably not the healthiest way to look at it. So, again, they get these mixed messages. So they need a voice and they need a voice from the parents, from the grandparents, and they need a voice of authority. And I call that the scripture. So, you know, God's been talking about this for a long, long time. The Bible, if you look at the Old Testament, you know, is thousands of years old and, you know, it's pretty solid on it. And it's not all negative. See, it's positive as well. So a lot of people ask me this question and I'm going to come back to this because we're going to take a quick break. You're going to hear more about this brand new resource. I mean, when I say brand new, I mean, this is the week, a student's guide to sexual integrity, God's plan for sex in your body. I think it's the most important project I've ever written. And then I love, love, love the course we have for parents and kids, parents and other parents to look at it for. And of course, for youth ministry as well, both middle school and high school and even kids who are like about 10 need to start getting into this kind of a thing. So when I was writing this book, I was thinking about a very young middle school person. And then I realized no high school kids need this too. So anyway, that's the deal. We'll come back in just a moment. We'll be right back. When we come back, I want to talk about when do you begin talking to your kids? If you haven't blown your mind already, then I'll blow your mind on this one. Are you ready? Okay, we'll take a break. I'm Erin Macha and I want to invite you into an honest conversation about one of life's most awkward yet important topics, sex. Conversations about sex can bring up all kinds of weird emotions, not the least of which is awkward. But that's not a reason to avoid the topic altogether. So if everybody's doing it, then what's the big deal? Where do you go with your questions? There are lots of voices telling you who you are, how to dress, what to think, how to feel. So how do we know what to listen to? Who can we trust to guide us? When we treat others with radical respect, we honor God. We make our lives and relationships better and we reflect God's love to the world all around us. Now, I know you might be thinking, what? I don't need guardrails. I have good intentions, but what if intention isn't enough? As you think about the path from where you are now to where you want to be, who are the friends that can help you get there? You'll hear personal stories, helpful advice, and truth from the Bible about how to make wise choices when it comes to love, sex, and dating. Imagine being able to look back on this stage of your life without regrets about the way you handled relationships. You're not going to get there by accident. You're going to have to decide in advance what guardrails to put in place to get to where you want to be. Join us for a student's guide to sexual integrity. Welcome back. I'm Jim Burns. So happy that you're with us. And again, lots more information at Homeward.com. You can find our books. We have a whole Pure Foundation series of books. We have them for kids starting at age three. It's kind of giving away what my point is going to be. And three to six, six to nine, stuff for you. We have courses for parents. We have courses for kids. So there's a lot of great information on this. It's time for us to begin to take the lead with the dialogue instead of just whining about what's going on out there. And I think this is an important question that I mentioned at the beginning. Right. This is an important question that I said before the break. When do you start talking to your kids about this? Now, again, you may be shocked, but I'm saying ages three to six. Now, again, you're not going to talk about the deepest subjects, but here's what you do. And I'm going to take this from a book that we actually have. It's a great book. It's at Homeward. You can also get it on Amazon or any place. It's called God Made Your Body, and it's for three to six-year-olds. And so again, it's not going to be heavy duty, but it says this. God made boys and God made girls and God made all shapes and sizes, and he created all colors and languages and God made you. And so you're having a dialogue with your child. Think of you're a three to six-year-old if you have one. And you're just sitting on the couch together. You're just hanging out. You're maybe outside and you're reading this book. Now, you're the safest person because already they're beginning to ask questions. My three and a half-year-old was with us this weekend along with our seven-month-old, so we're not exhausted. We took care of him. Well, Mommy and Daddy went away. And you know what? He asked me some great questions about private parts. They're funny, actually. Not going to say it on the air, but it's funny. But he was ready for this book already. But notice I said God, God made. So instead of saying it from a negative viewpoint, don't do that. Don't do this. Shame on you. You're going to teach them that God made your body. OK? The next one says God made, the next page says, and I'm not going to read the whole book. God made some boys and girls with itty bitty noses. He made some with big ears. God made boys and girls with different colored eyes, green, blue, hazel, brown, gray. What color are your eyes? So now you're asking a question. And so what you've got here is you've got, I'm showing it by the way, if you're on the YouTube channel, you can kind of see this. It has cute little babies and this cute kid on the eye story. But what color are your eyes? And then you talk about your eyes. So again, what you're doing is you're setting them up that you're going to be safe. Some boys and girls have skin dark like chocolate ice cream. Some have skin light like vanilla milkshakes. And most are in between. God gave boys and girls different types of hair. Some hair is straight like a broom. Some hair is loopy like a crazy straw. What kind of hair do you have? My grandson says I have bald hair. And I want to try to teach him what the word oxymoron, because of your bald you don't have hair, but he thinks I have bald hair. But here's one. And again, sorry to say this. If you have your child mentioned this at the beginning of the podcast, but if your children are on, you may not want to have them hear this. But three to five year old, I'm saying it's time to tab that conversation. It was God's idea for every little boy to have a penis and testicles. Now there that that's uncomfortable for you maybe to say it's not uncomfortable for them because they're not at the even squirrely stage yet. And again, it was every little girl. God gave a vagina and a womb. So now you're naming the parts. There's even places in the United States that if a child was sexually abused and they can't name the part that was touched, they can't put it into the court proceedings. So, you know, we have kids, it's kind of random, but we have kids who are 11 calling their private parts their wing-a-ding-dings because we didn't teach them the private part. So, you know, I'm kind of big on that, see. So that's, you know, it's basic. It's just basic stuff. You say, well, that wasn't about sex. Yes, it was because we're talking about your body. Notice that I use God a lot. Now, six to nine, I'm not spending the rest of the podcast just reading books to you, but here's one. Do you know a family who's expecting a baby? And again, if you're on the YouTube channel, you can see this. It's a little boy looking at his mommy's pregnant tummy because what do all six to, you know, nine, 10-year-olds have? They have lots of questions. They're going to ask questions. So you oftentimes can do sex education by answering their questions. Here's the first sentence. God's plan for families began when he created Adam and Eve, but God's plan for families. Are you teaching your children six to nine? God's plan for families. And again, it's not preachy. It's just you're telling them what it's all about. In at the six to nine-year-olds, you go back to every little girl has a vagina. Every little boy has a penis. But here's the last one that I would say, and this is so key, so critical. It's the reason I'm bringing this whole thing up in some ways. See these little, well, you're on the, if you're not on the YouTube channel, you can't see it, but it has these little kids and their hands are kind of like stop. But it says if anyone ever tries to touch your private parts or ask you to touch their private parts, tell that person to stop, no matter who it is, even if it's a friend or someone in your family, they are not allowed to touch you in any way that makes you feel uncomfortable. And if this happens, tell a grownup you trust right away. You can tell mommy, you can tell daddy, you can tell grandma, grandpa, and we will not get mad at you. It's not in the book, but that's, I always add that sharing your private parts is something to save for your husband or wife when you are grown and married. So you can see me kind of, you know, moving that in that way. But I think it's critical for us to make sure that we talk about sexual abuse. Why? Why? At that age, because 80% of child sexual assaults are between someone that they know and oftentimes who they know and love and trust. So I'm giving a talk this weekend in Wisconsin. And one of the things I'm going to say is that of young women who are 19 years old, one out of three, at least one out of three have been sexually abused. One out of five to six men. Well, I am not saying we can stop all sexual abuse, but if a parent will have that conversation, and if a parent is the safe one, then it's key and critical that we can have that. Now, let me just simply close with this. I believe it's important for us to have what I call a theology of healthy sexuality. Now, theology is, you know, a religious word. It just means the study of God and healthy sexuality means the study of our sexuality. And too many times we separate sex and God. But yet, if God is the creator and we were created in his image, then we find in Genesis one and two, God created sex. God created male and God created female. And it's really clear. We make it so complicated. And if somebody's listening to the other voices of culture, but if we listen to the voice of authority, God created male, God created female. And I understand there's complications here with what people think and feel and all that. But, you know, this is a theology of healthy sexuality that says not only did God create sex, but God sees it as very good. I mean, when he created male and female in Genesis two, he goes, this is good. No, this is very good. See what I mean? Some people have said that that Hebrew word could mean awesome. So we should be talking out of positivity rather than negativity and teaching our kids out of positivity rather than out of negativity. Now, sure, we want to teach them what adultery is. Exodus 20, 14. Don't commit adultery. I mean, is there anybody who goes, oh, adultery is good for the relationship? Adultery breaks up couples. It breaks up families. It breaks up churches. I mean, it's crazy. So God says, don't commit adultery, not because he's the great killjoy again, but because he wants the best for you. So you're building up guardrails. And even as a man who thinks women are beautiful, I need to make sure I have guardrails in place that keep me from making poor choices. That's why I have been in a small group for 22 years with other men where we talk about this kind of stuff. Another word, and here's a word you haven't heard for a long time. It's the word fornication. And fornication simply means, and it's actually a Greek word. It's called pornea. It means immorality. But why I use the word fornication is because it's from the old, old version of a Bible. I don't use that particular version anymore. But what it means is that if you have sexual relations and you're not married, and the Bible's pretty clear, it says this. It is God's will for you. This is, by the way, found in 1 Thessalonians 4.3. It is God's will for you. So very few times do you know that in the Bible it says this is God's will for you. I mean, the Bible is God's will for us, but very few times does it say those words four or five times. It is God's will for you that you should be sanctified, which means to be set apart, to be holy. That you should avoid sexual immorality. It doesn't say avoid sex and marriage. Actually, it says just the opposite in other places. But we are to avoid sexual immorality. Why? Because God wants the best for you. God's looking out for you. When a man and a woman come together, they are bonded together. And so there's no such thing as casual sex. The world wants you to believe that there's casual sex. There's, you know, hookups with your friends, friends with benefits. That's not the case when people have the intimacy of intercourse in their relationship. I told you I was going to be a little bit blunt. So again, it won't be too much more blunt. But if you do have a child, you may want to, you know, put your earbuds on. The Bible also talks about one flesh. And this is important that your kids begin learning this at a certain age. I mean, just one flesh. The Bible, Jesus said it in Matthew 19, four through six. A man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife. And the two will become one flesh. And that's a beautiful illustration of oneness. Okay. It even goes on to say what God has brought together, let no one separate. So that illustration, a man will leave his father and mother. So it means we need to leave our parents and they will become united. Well, the word in Greek, united, means to be bonded together. So that goes back to the no such thing as, as casual sex, because you are bonded. You are literally bonded together. It's a great, it's a great learning lesson, but it's a beautiful part of the theology of healthy sexuality. Then the Bible, and this will be the last scripture I'll use, but the Bible says, flee from sexual immorality. There's that word again, pornea, flee from sexual immorality. In marriage, don't flee from sex, but flee from sexual immorality. And it goes on to say that all other sins a person commits are outside of their body, but he or she who sins sexually sins against their own body. It doesn't mean there's a hierarchy of sin. It just simply means that you're missing the mark. And so it's going to affect the way you do relationships. It's going to affect that relationship. Do you know that with kids, and this is in my book called, teaching your children healthy sexuality, but in, in, in that book, I quote research, not my own, but I quote research that says 25% of young girls are, have been depressed three months before they had sex. 25% have been depressed three months after. So there's emotional consequences to this as well. Not just physical consequences that we always tend to focus on. Then the Bible says, do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit or the temple of God? So we need to teach our kids early on that we're to honor God with our body. Yes, but, but our body is the temple of God. And so we treat others that way. So I'm called to have a radical respect. And we actually talk quite a bit about this in, in the book that I just have, as I was saying, coming out called a student's guide to sexual integrity. We talk about treating the opposite sex with a radical respect, treating people with a radical respect. And when we do that, then we're, we're looking at them as a child of God. God lives within them. It's a great scripture. Then it says, honor God with your body. And we go back to the, what we called the integrity code. So in honor of God, my family and all that plans that God has for me, I commit to sexual integrity. That's not a bad thing to do. And we want our kids to do that. But to do that as parents, we have to make sure that we're willing to have those conversations. So anyway, little pep talk today. You didn't know you're going to get the Jim sex talk, but I think it's really key and important. And I hope you'll talk with your friends about this. I hope if this is awkward for you to talk with your kids, I hope you'll get some information. I would say when I speak on this subject, which is quite often, I would imagine that one of the first questions is, well, I didn't do it right. So what if my kids ask me? And so I'll just answer that question today. It'll save us a lot of time from questions that are going to be sent to us. But what I'd say is, you know what? I'm so passionate about this now because I didn't always do this right. You don't have to go all through all the details. You can just say, look, I'm passionate because I didn't always do it right. And here you go. I don't think you lie to them. I think you just put it out there. I'm passionate about this subject. And this is why we're having these conversations. But make them one minute conversations rather than one hour conversations. Don't lecture and preach. Lead with love and practice kindness as you do this. It's not going to help if we're just putting everybody else down and we're being all angry about it. What we're going to do is help be the safest person you can be for your children when it comes to this subject. And if you do, I can't guarantee that every kid is going to make the right and wise decisions because we don't know how to always handle our hormones. But I can say that research shows that the more positive value centered sex education that kids receive from home, the less promiscuous they'll be. And Homeward has great resources for you. We're going to tell you more about that with our announcer here in a moment. But anyway, thank you so much for listening. This was a just Jim. You won't hear this very often. Next week, we're going to have Erin Mashon, who actually wrote with me this book. And she's a wonderful person. She's the head of adult ministries. But she has youth ministry and children's ministry background. She's the head of adult ministries at North Point Church in Atlanta, Georgia. And just an awesome person. You're going to enjoy that podcast too. So we'll look forward to being with you next week as we continue this series, if you would, on teaching your children healthy sexuality. Have a great, great week. Welcome to Homeward. I'm Jim Burns and I'm smiling today. We have Doug Fields back with us. We're going to talk about the first few years of marriage, but don't go away if you've been married for longer or you're not married because there's some great content that we're going to communicate on. In fact, Doug and I wrote the book, The First Few Years of Marriage, and when we wrote the book, we said, wow, everybody should listen to this content. Everybody should read this content. But for the first few years, so many times we see couples who are in those first few years and they don't build a foundation on their marriage. They were doing great in pre-marriage and then they got busy and they got distracted. And next thing you know, they're looking up saying, wow, our marriage is in trouble. And that's a lot of times when marriages are in trouble. So if your marriage is not in those first few years, this can still be helpful for you, but then send it to somebody that you know, that's been married for only a shorter time. As I mentioned, I'm very excited to have Doug Fields back with us. We had him on the program a while back. We talked about intentional parenting, how to be an intentional parent. So, so good. But today we're going to talk about marriage and Doug does a marriage matters event once a month at Irvine, at the Irvine church called Mariners. And what's amazing is it brings over a thousand people every single time. Loads of people come and I talk to people because I'm in that area too, who just tell me that they love hearing Doug and they love his humor and they love his ability to communicate. I honestly have said behind his back that he's one of the finest communicators in the country and I believe that strongly. In fact, the first time he spoke on marriage that I know of was at an event that I was at and I was sitting on the right hand side of me was my wife, Kathy, and on the left hand side was his wife, Kathy. We have, we both are married to Kathy's. And in the middle of the talk, I said, Oh my gosh, I hear all kinds of marriage content. I think this is the best marriage talk I've ever heard. I'll tell you at the end. And then it became that I can still tell you what it was on. It was a long time ago, but it was so, so good. So what a privilege to have him. He's been married to his wife, Kathy, for a number of years. They've got three adult kids and a host of grandkids and they do family and they do marriage right. And I have great respect. You know, I was Doug's youth pastor, but what's funny about that is now that, you know, we're more peers, I actually see him many times as even a mentor in the field of ministry. So I appreciate love, Doug. Welcome back. Oh, thank you so much. And you say you see me as a mentor. I know you're saying that because we're going to have to lunch afterwards and you're going to want me to pay. Oh, if you would do that for the first time in our relationship, it's been 40 years, but yeah, that'd be great. That's true. I do owe you a few lunches. Gee It's great to be here. Let's talk marriage. I love it. Yeah, I love it. And you're right, Jim, this content in the first few years of marriage, we were given kind of the title of this because we wrote a book called Getting Ready for Marriage and they thought this was the next one. But when we finished, we're like, this could have been a general marriage book. There's so much in it, but it is so important for couples to start out their marriage in the right direction. No, you're right. And what happens, and I mentioned this in the opening is that a lot of times couples drift in those first couple years. And I get you know, they're busy with their jobs. They're, you know, maybe making a baby. There's just loads of things going on. They drift. What you say is they need a course correction. Well, every marriage drifts, right? Every marriage drift. So it's not a matter of will your marriage drift? Yes, it will. Even if you're newly married and you're thinking, oh, we just will never drift. Yes, you will. You're going to drift. But the key to a healthy marriage is making those course corrections. And that's what we talk about. So if you don't make the course correction, you know, a drift over a long period of time, you're going to totally miss the goal and the destination that you had intended before you even said, I do. So really, what we talk about in the book is a lot of the course corrections that couples need to make. Yeah. And you know, sometimes they don't sound very spontaneous or romantic, but they're needed. In right at the beginning of the book, we said a phrase and I love this phrase. I think it's your phrase. You know, a healthy, happy marriage is a choice, not a coincidence. I mean, it sounds unromantic, but that makes sense. How do you do it? Well, I mean, everything is a choice, right? And those that want a spontaneous carefree marriage, it's not going to happen. You're at your happiest, your happiest, you know, this is based on research. The high point of marriage is when you first get married. And then there is a natural and normal decline in what's called relationship satisfaction. And so to keep it at a higher level of relationship satisfaction, we have to make some, some conscious choices. I'm not saying you've got to quote unquote work on your marriage, but you kind of do. Meaning that nobody wants to come home after a long day of work and work, right? Right. We'll work some more. Oh, that sounds fun. I got to do that until death do us part. Like good night. Why did I even get married? But there, there's an intentionality behind a healthy marriage that we're going to make some decisions that, that put our marriage in a, in a healthier spot than we would be if we just let it carefree. Now, when you're dating, there's a lot of romance and a lot of excitement and a lot of this is new and fresh and no, you hang up. No, you hang up. I don't, I could listen to you speak all night. I'm just going to lay next to the phone. You know, there's all that courtship that gets us to this point of I do. And then what happens after the newness kind of, of that wears off, it's not in a malicious or even an evil way. We just get, we get distracted. We chase other things like we chase each other before we get married. And then when we get married, we chase a mortgage, we chase our kids, we chase a career. There's other things to chase, which leads to the drift. No, and that makes sense. So we need a course correction. You, you tell couples to laugh daily, date weekly, talk about that. Well, I, I always think there needs to be more laughter in life. Anyway, you know, a lot of people just, if you're, if your marriage gets bland, it's going to be boring. And so I think just look for laughter when you, when you taste a little bit of laughter, you crave a little bit more. When I'm in front of crowds, I will say, how many of you believe that your marriage is worth 1% of your time? I'm just going to lower the bar to 1% of your time. And of course, everybody raises their hand, right? Well, 1% of your time is 15 minutes a day or about 100 minutes a week. And so that's what we talk about in the date weekly is, okay, if your marriage is worth 1% of your time, then 1% of your time is 100 minutes a week. We'll round it down because we're nice guys. So 90, an hour and a half, no rollover minutes. If you go, you know, you can't subtract that from the next week, but you know, all, all kinds of science, relationship science points to the fact that people have increased relational satisfaction when they spend isolated time together. And there's a million excuses, Jim, you and I have heard them all about why you don't date and marriages don't date. And then all of a sudden you wake up and you've been married 10, 20, 30 years and you haven't been on a date. And it's why we have such a high divorce rate of people married 25 years or older, because their whole marriage was based on their kids. So laugh, look for opportunities, laugh, be together. You're going to laugh, not when you are at home at the kitchen table working on your marriage. You're going to laugh when you're out, when you're on a date, when you're walking around, when you're going on a hike, you're trying something new. So yeah, I believe, and you have modeled this, you're the one that you've been married 50 years. Congratulations, by the way, 50 years of marriage. Good night. But I would say just observing your life, don't you think you guys have had a date night, let's say 45 of 52 weeks of a year? I would say that. Yeah. Yeah. And we made that as a conscious decision because it wasn't happening. Right. And Kathy even said, actually, I was your youth pastor at the time. And, you know, after a youth event, we were having a meal and she said, you know, I don't know if we should have kids. And, and I went, what? And then I had to say to her, well, you know, I am having an affair, but the affair isn't with a woman or a man, the pharaoh is with my mistress is my job. And we made a decision to date weekly. And that honestly has changed our, I think that's changed the trajectory of our marriage. Cause when we date, we have fun. We'd like each other. We just sometimes don't like each other if we're trying to work on our marriage or doing the bills or doing all the monotonous stuff. And there's monotony in life. Yeah. And you, so you've got to prioritize it. And I tell couples this because you say date weekly, immediately freak out like ideas and what should I do? And does it always have to be creative? And if, if you plan one date a month, just you plan one date a month, your spouse plans one date a month, then you have one default date. Like our friends Duffy and Maggie, they have a default date. They call it chicken aflick. They go to Chick-fil-A and to a movie. Okay. That's their default date. Okay. And so, so you plan one, your spouse plans one, you have a default date, and then you have an at home date. So now really what you're doing, you're only feeling the pressure one time a month to come up with something to do for nine, you know, 90 minutes. And if you don't have the budget, then you go on cheap dates. You trade babysitters, you use duct tape to keep them at home or, you know, whatever it is. Like there are other people, I mean, every excuse we've heard, Jim, of why they don't. And it can be tragic on your marriage. And a date is a course correction. Yeah, you're right. I was aware of, there's a couple who used to come to our refreshing your marriages and maybe they still do. I haven't seen them for a while, but they said when we challenged them to do that, they said they made a commitment and it changed the trajectory of their marriage. They were actually going toward divorce and they tell me this every time I see them. How cool is that? I love it. Yeah. And it wasn't something, some deep thing. I kept thinking, wait, no, we said deep stuff. We talked about this and that and they went, no, you just said to go do a date. We can do that. And they did. And they're in a better place now. That 1% is super palatable. It's realistic. And I would even say this on the date, the daytime. And it doesn't have to be night. It could be day, day, could be date morning. It's just 90 minutes, you two together, but you're not talking finances. You're not talking calendar and you're not talking about your kids. It's just you and just make that off limits. Have another time for that. That's no, you know, Monday afternoon or whatever. Have your calendar and your finance meeting. But when you date, you do what you did before you get married. You pursue each other. You chase each other. So, so, so good. I have heard you say that busy people are broken people. I would say busy marriages or broken marriages. We're talking about this. We say, well, we don't have enough time to do that. But in the book, you have a whole chapter that you wrote more than I did on it. And it said slow down. Yeah, Jim, I think this is this and phones, I think are the number one issue related to marriage right now. I think people are just every excuse you hear is we just don't have the time for it. But the reality is the one thing we all have in common people listening, we don't make the same money. We don't have the same ethnicity. We don't have the same backgrounds. But one thing we all the anybody that's listening to this right now we all have in common is 1440 minutes a day. So we've got to figure out how do we manage that time. And so every time I say yes to something else, I'm saying no to my marriage. So I got to make sure that if I'm saying yes to coaching a little league team, or I'm saying yes to serving at the church, or I'm saying yes to all these many opportunities that are out there, we're not we're not people who lack opportunities. We lack discernment on what to say yes to and what to say no to. So many of you, you're saying no to your marriage, because you're saying yes to many things. And yes is always what gets us busy. When Kathy and I look at our lives, and it's a little out of control. If we kind of hold it up to the mirror, we're going we said yes to that, we said yes to that, we said yes to that. And that has made us too busy. Yeah, I think that's it's it's and it's difficult, you know, Kathy and I went out to dinner last night with a couple. And then we get a call from some very special people in our life. And we went, let's do it. I'm flying tomorrow. She's actually flying tomorrow. We're going separately. But, you know, we we kind of regret I kind of regret having that saying yes to a to another dinner meeting. But it's our choice. We could have said, right, can we put it off? But we say no, we want to we want to be with you. And now we're looking at it kind of as drudgery instead of enjoying. Yeah. And I think you have a you have a go to when it becomes you know, I talk about a date time being sacred, then you can always say, you know, I would love to do that. But we have something planned. Yeah, you don't have to say what it is. But if you want to agree, we're we're investing in our marriage and investing in your marriage could be a financial investment. It could be, you know, you're going to you're going to sacrifice, you have to sacrifice to have a healthy. Yeah. And I actually think as leaders, and we have a lot of leaders listening all over the world who are listening to this podcast. And what I say, I tell people, hey, it's Kathy's my date night. I remember a time where we had a very famous Christian leader who you know very well. And, and they happen to be in town, they lived on the East Coast. And, and they were speaking at a big church and his wife called Kathy and said, Hey, do you guys want to do dinner tonight? And she said, No, it's date night. So I didn't know this. So she says, Hey, I had a nice call with, you know, Peg, and you know, blah, blah, blah. And I go, so we're going to dinner with them. She goes, Well, no, it's our date night. And I was like, the boundaries that she had, because there would be thousands of people who'd want to go out with this couple. Yeah, they invited us. Yeah. And well, and that's why you've lasted 50 years, because she holds boundaries. And she's she knows that daytime is sacred. And you're willing to give it up for just a Yeah, so that's why she likes your talks on marriage better than my talk. I understand. I understand. But yeah, date, date, laugh, be together everything. You know, when you dreamt about marriage, you weren't thinking, Oh, like, someday, it's gonna be boring and stale, and it's gonna lack excitement and be no fun. No, that's not what you thought you thought this would be so fun to be together, we're going to be married. Well, you've got to you've got to be intentional to keep that fun and laughter in your marriage. You're really you're so right. Now, Kathy, and I we've been married longer than you. And we dated all through college, and we got married. And what I really liked about her when we were dating began to bug me, it was called differences. So I'm an extrovert, she's an introvert, and we go through these different things. And and that's the case with you and Kathy, too. And we both married above ourselves. We've said that several times. But what do you do when your spouse really is different? How do you embrace the differences rather than, you know, attack the difference? Yeah, well, I mean, we've all heard that phrase, like differences attract you're attracted. And then when you get married, they attack, right? Because you're you've settled in, you're like, Oh, it's not as cute as I thought it used to be. Right. I think it goes back even big picture, you know, not that we're going to trace it all back to sin. But let's do that for a second. Like, you are imperfect. And you married another imperfect person. You know, I tell people like, you're a nutball, and you married a wacko. So you got a nut job and a wacko trying to live live together, you're going to have some chaos, some chaos and some differences. And I think really comes to attitude, you're the king of this gym, you've got such a positive attitude about so many things. But I tell couples, you change your attitude, you change your marriage, you really do, you just become so negative. So I think you got to it starts by being thankful. So you be praying, thank God for your spouse and how he or she is different from you. You celebrate those differences instead of attack those. And one of the words that I've inserted into my marriage vocabulary for the last few decades is the word minimize, is I just really try to minimize some of the things. I'll tell you where this came from. Kathy had this weird habit of finishing toilet paper and leaving an empty roll out. Like it's done. And there's actually toilet paper sitting nearby that she could have just picked up, put on the toilet paper thing. I timed it, it takes about eight seconds to do it. And I was like, I can't, what is so weird? Like she is, you know, I start- What's wrong with that? Yeah, I start running through my mind this list of what an awful person that she is that she didn't replace the toilet paper roll. And then I actually hear her and the kids laughing in the other room. And I thought, you know, my kids adore her. She's incredible. And I just started thinking of all these silly, wonderful things about her that I love so much. And I thought, really, you're going to make it, you're ready to have a fight because for the ninth time she didn't put the toilet paper roll on. And so I was like, who cares? Like just come on, minimize that, Doug. That's not worth it. If you want to be angry and mad and frustrated, you could be that 24-7. Because you're imperfect and you married another imperfect person. I mean, I've heard you say, does it really matter? And sometimes in our head, I've done that where Kathy and I have been in some kind of even a conflict and I walk out the door and I kind of go, okay, does that really matter? It doesn't really matter. Yeah, it bugs me, but it doesn't really matter. I think that's a great filter. I use it all. I mean, you know, we've been married, you know, this will be our 40th year. And I use that a lot because it really doesn't matter. And in the grand scheme of things, there is so much more positive than the negative. Yeah. And some things matter. I mean, adultery matters, abuse matters, addictions matter. But really so much of what we get all hassled about and really takes us down the wrong course of our marriage is something that we, what are we doing? Why do we really care? And there are things that matter. I mean, you went to an extreme and those things do matter, but there are things that bug you and you obviously have to address those. Yeah, no, it's so good. Shouldn't be on your phone when we're in bed or whatever it is. Like we got to talk about those things, but there's a lot of differences that are just, they're really not that big a deal. No, it's good. I think that's really helped Kathy and me in our marriage. One of the things that's really helped us is that we kind of do that. Does it really matter? And there are some things that still bug her about me and there's things that bug me about her that we probably still need to work on, but it really has helped us solidify a marriage that for us both coming from somewhat dysfunctional families and whatnot, we didn't know how to do this. Yeah. And so we have found that that's a biggie. You know, another one, and I love how you talk about this and you really have done some research on this is positivity toward your marriage. That when you work on the positivity, people who have a positivity toward their marriage do much better. Speak to that. Absolutely. Well, like I said, you know, I say if you want to change your marriage, be more positive about it. I was out for a run one morning and I went, well, more of a jog run indicates speed. So I was more, let's say I was walking fast as I was eating a donut and I walked by this lady and she said, and I wasn't in a very good mood. I'm not a morning person. You and I are different, Jim. You're a morning person. You like, you have to embrace your differences with me. That's right. You wake up and you're like, good morning, God. I don't. I wake up like, good God morning. You know, you're happy in the morning. I'm still trying to wake up from a coma. And so I wasn't in a very good mood for whatever reason. And I was out jogging and she said, good morning. And just the way that she said it, I started thinking about good morning. First, I thought she looked like Mary Poppins. This has gone off the rails. Sorry. To get inside your brain. Yeah. Yeah. Well, then it was like a spoonful of sugar. And I couldn't remember what the spoonful of sugar was. I just know that I like trick cereal. But she said, good morning. And the more that I jogged and ran, I started thinking about all the reasons that it was a good morning. And by the end of the time I totally changed my, I mean, it's so dumb. It's a dumb illustration. It's so simple, but just the phrasing of good morning and me thinking about all the reasons that it was good, it totally changed my attitude. So instead of thinking about all the reasons that your husband is not good or your wife is not good, go back to the list of what you love about them and maybe even begin a list. You know, you don't anymore. You don't even have to journal it. Just put it in your phone and the notes section, like, you know, things that I love about Kathy. I actually, I mean, we didn't talk about this, but I actually have a notes page on my phone about things that I love about Kathy. You know, you're calm. You love our kids so deeply. You love Jesus. You're secure and don't try to prove yourself. You're funny, even though we don't admit that to you. You're adventurous. You're present. You're fun to be like, I have this list. You're looking at it right now on my phone and it's long and I just add to it all the time. So there are times when I like before I go in the house after a long day or we were arguing about something that didn't matter before I left, I'll just sit in the driveway and just read this and just be reminded of what an adorable, wonderful, incredible wacko woman that I married, married an insecure nutball like me. Yeah, that's really, really, really good. And it's being proactive. I did that for Kathy. I wrote a hundred reasons why I was thankful. And I noticed the other day, and this has been a couple of years ago, that it's in her drawer. She still has that. And I thought how interesting. Of course, that was, that was meaningful to you. You don't read that and throw it away. Oh, Jim, that's nice. Trash. Yeah. I mean, let's talk about, you know, you're the pro at this. Talk about Gottman's research on five to one. Exactly. He calls it the magic ratio. If you have five positive interactions to one negative interaction, then, you know, those, he's never seen a marriage go down when you're even one to one. And some marriages are the opposite, more negative. That's when you're in trouble in your marriage. Yeah. And so it goes back to what we were saying before. Some of that positivity is going and having fun. You know, we, you know, we're going on a big, a big anniversary trip here and I'm really excited about it. I'm just excited about hanging out with her, but I'm also excited about having fun, going on walks longer times of romance, all those kinds of things. And if we're ever needing a course correction, those kinds of things help. Now you can't always go spend two weeks, you know, in a beautiful spot, but you can do these little mini trips. 90 minutes, 90 minutes a week, Jim, is all it takes. So, so, so good. Hey, we're going to take a quick break, Doug. And when we come back, we'll talk about fighting and fighting fear. I think you have some great stuff on that. Doug Fields is with us. We're talking about the first few years of your marriage. If you want more information on that book, you can go to homeward.com and get information. You can go to show notes and get all the information on Doug Fields. DougFields.com is where you get a lot of his resources. And really, truly just one of the, as you can tell, one of the great thinkers and communicators in the world today. We'll be right back. We're going to talk about fighting and conflict and how we deal with our own fears on that. We'll be right back. Hey, I'm Kelly Fellows. Did you know that Homeward also has resources for parents and married couples? You can find all those resources at our website, homeward.com. Also check out our YouTube channel where we create one minute video vitamins to encourage parents into resource couples. Check those all out at YouTube forward slash Homeward and also our website, homeward.com. Now let's get back to our podcast. Welcome back. Is this not just a great conversation? It's so motivating. I'm actually thinking of people that I could send this to without trying to be preachy at them because great input. Doug is always so helpful, practical, fun. We're talking about the first few years of marriage. And by the way, there's a course for individuals, a course for groups, small groups, maybe you have a small group at your church and you want to look at marriage. Well, the course is great. It's a lot of Doug and some of me. And it's just helpful in any way you can when you start thinking about making course corrections. It's those little things that make such a difference. Okay, let's talk about conflict and fighting. That's fun. But you think a lot of it has to do with fear. Yeah, let's back up. Conflict is inevitable. And we know by research that it's not like healthy marriages have less conflict, right? That healthy marriages might even have more conflict, but they know how to deal with it in a positive way. So conflict is inevitable. Misery is optional. And so when I talk about fear, what I'm talking about is that I think most of the time when Kathy and I get into some argument, it has triggered a fear that I have. And I think a lot of us have all different types of fear. My fear is I'm not going to be good enough. I could go way back into the psychosis of where that comes from and being raised in a wonderful family. But if I came home with an A, which is a little bit harder, it could have been an A plus. And if I had went three for four at a game, if I was a little faster, I could have stretched that double into a triple. There was just always something that actually went to a couple of your games. I don't think you ever went three for four. That's true. That was all an exaggeration. But so when I think about like my script, my script, anytime I feel broken, it goes back to I'm not good enough. That's a fear. Other people's fears are fear of rejection, fear of failure, fear of being lonely, fear of being unimportant or disliked or powerless or unwanted. So a lot of conflict isn't really that surface, like whatever we're going to argue about, it triggers that fear. And then when I have a fear that I'm feeling unwanted or I'm not good enough husband, then I might respond in such a way that actually chases Kathy's fear. And Kathy's fear is being unwanted. So I mean, you talk about like my fears, I'm not good enough. And so I'm not a good enough husband, then sometimes I go silent, which then triggers her fear of being unwanted. And our fears just kind of chase each other. So I think it's important to understand that in conflict to take a step back and say, okay, what is this fear that might be unearthed in me? And is it a common fear? And then I can just say like, babe, you know that I struggle with, you know, that I'm not good enough. This is pushing that button. And there's a wounding there. And then when Kathy becomes empathetic to that wounding, she says, Oh, it has nothing to do with me. Feeling like you're not a good enough husband. I was just disappointed or whatever we can talk about it once we know what that primary fear is. And you know, conflict is neither good nor bad. It's just, it's going to be there. So if you can work on your conflict, it actually draws you closer together is what I hear you say. Absolutely. No, that's that is so key. You know, my my if we move it to love languages, my love language is affirmation. So when Kathy's critical to me, and you got to be in a marriage sometimes, but when she is, it's actually more wounding. And she I had to explain that to her. So since my love language is affirmation, if you're giving me criticism, you got to know that you're killing me on this. And and that's not all that I mean, she again, she has to sometimes be critical or negative toward it. But she has to be careful because that's not going to help us. It's just more explosive. Yeah, if you're if you're a words person, that criticism stings a little bit more, it's more explosive. Right. You know, I often say that communication is a learned trait. But actually, marriage is kind of a learned trait. You can have a more intimate or more connected marriage. But you got to learn some of this stuff. And that's why it's good to, you know, listen to the podcast. It's good to read books. It's good to do this kind of stuff, because I tell parents and I know, or I know you do too, parents and couples, read one marriage book a year, read one parenting book a year. And it's not like every there's only one book, it's just, you know, it's going to help you. And why do we not work on this? And work doesn't have to be like, you know, drudgery. But you know, read a book together, read it, you know, Kathy read a book to me in the car while we were driving. And I listened to it for half a part, you know, part of the time. I'm still thinking about from our previous conversation about just a spoonful of sugar. So I've lost some of our conversation. I get it. I'm trying to get that music going. I can't get that lady out of my mind. You know, if if this triggered something to somebody who's listening, we unpack this in a whole chapter in the book on years because it's a little bit heady in terms of because a lot of times when we argue with we're arguing over sex or finances or the children or the children having sex for finances or whatever we're arguing over, that's it. That's at the surface level. We got to go underneath that surface because we always point to, oh, we have the same arguments all the time about money. No, you're you're maybe having the arguments about money, but it's really what's underneath what's lurking, what's keeping you from finding healing is you haven't identified your primary fear and your response is chasing his or her fear. You're right. So we have to learn how to I bet you most of the people listening would be benefited by learning their primary fear. Yep. That was really helpful for me when I first started learning that stuff. Now you mentioned the word sex and of course you always talk about sex. So how many books have you written on sex, by the way, because I haven't written one book. You just talk about it. Yeah, but we every marriage you put it into a print. Yeah, like I speak on sex in marriage. You just bring it up on everything. So I give the talk and then but yours is it's spice for everything. We're going to talk about finances today and then you give us illustration on sex. But we digress. We actually need a course correction. So let's talk about what you called have great sex. You said sex is a thermometer to a healthy relationship. What does that mean? Well, I just think it's an indicator of intimacy. It's not the only indicator. But for I would say 90 percent of the people that are listening, there's a 10 percent that for whatever reasons cannot function in that in that regard of physical sexual intimacy. But for for most it is an indicator. It's a it's a sign that there's still some passion and interest and physical affection left in the marriage. And so I would say that even if you know, I'm I'm you mentioned earlier that I'm speaking to a thousand couples every every month and I have them write me letters. You and I haven't even talked about this when we talk about everything. But I would say this last year, I've been shocked at how many letters have come in from what I would call sexless marriages that the flame is the flame has disappeared. Right. So I think and most of the time, most of the time, it's not a physical issue. It's an emotional issue. Something has happened between them. Right. And they're allowing that to you know, be their new reality. Yeah, no, that's that's that's so good. I actually in April, I did two marriage conferences, one called a place called Wind Shape, which is the Chick-fil-A Foundation World in Atlanta and one at Mount Hermon. Kathy and I spoke and both places. People told me a story where one had not had a sexual intimate relationship for 12 years. And another one was 14 years at two different spots. And so I gave them some input and I said, what do you think about that? And the woman said, well, that's exactly what Gary Chapman told us at eight years. I thought, well, you probably need to put this into practice. They're still together. So they want to be together. So there's and like what you say, it's not usually, you know, the plumbing issue or whatever. It's actually more of an emotional thing that they need to work through. And, you know, the Bible says where there's no counsel, the people fall in multitude of counselors or safety. Sometimes hard to go talk to somebody about this, but it's important. Yeah. And we talked earlier about the drift. I mean, think about this. If you're in a marriage and you're drifting, you're just one percent off course. So maybe other things are working in your life, but you're this physical sexual area is done. You're one percent off course. You know, over a long period of time, that one percent becomes miles. And so now all of a sudden you're like, oh, we haven't dealt with it that last year. Like you just got to get it. You got to get some help on that. You got to talk about it. You know, Jim, you've even talked about, I've heard you speak about scheduled sex because it doesn't sound very spontaneous and sexy. But, you know, why don't you address that for him? Because I think that's a real practical. What's interesting is it's coming out in all kinds of research now that people who are struggling at finding the time, if they schedule it, it actually helps them and they look forward to it. Their intimacy is better. And, you know, I used to just kind of talk about it teasing. But the fact of the matter is, now that I'm looking at more research, the more research I look at, the more people who actually say, hey, you know what, it's Friday night, it's Sunday, it's, you know, whatever it is, they actually have developed a more excitement. And you know what it does is if you schedule on a certain date, then it actually causes you to want more intimacy, you know, throughout the week. So it's kind of a good thing. We don't have much time, but I want to talk about one issue that we addressed. And it surprised me when we wrote this chapter, and we looked at the research and it was on making babies when a baby arrives. Making babies when babies arrive, one of the greatest experiences and joys of our life, but at the same time for both men and women, marital satisfaction went down more for men than for women. Speak to that. What are practical ways we can do that? And again, we don't have much time, but I want you to speak to that. You have such good ideas. Well, I think the reality is that I find that for men, you know, you mentioned it goes, it goes down, it's because they're they're now the third person in the relationship. Right. Right. And so many people are caught off guard that way. I've got, you know, three grown married children, and I let all the guys know, like, you're going to feel like an outsider for about a year. So there is a lot of difficulty with that. And it's very real to be in a marriage and not feel like you're wanted there. So one, you got to just address the reality. It's going to feel like that a little bit. She's not avoiding you. She's just exhausted and tired. And she's the only one that has the proper plumbing to make sure that baby stops crying. So, you know, just reality going into it with children, you're going to be tired all the time, you're going to have to you're going to have some some struggles and some troubles. But Jim, it goes back to what we talked about the first time you have to make time for each other. So I would just say, get babysitting, get help, get an in law, get somebody to take that time where no matter what you have to invest in that one on one time with one another. And I think that's so good. Even even when you're going back to the date night issue of, you know, keep investing in your marriage, even when the I get you're going to be tired. So it's not going to be this amazing experience, but give each other time you give others time during that time. So take the get, make sure the baby's taken care of and, you know, then put some energy into that, even if it's not 100 percent because you are exhausted in those first few years. Exactly. I have seven grandchildren under the age of 10. And I'm looking at these couples, you know, my my kids and they're tired all the time. Exactly tired all the time. Yeah. So they have to they have to work on that. And they've got each other to help out with babysitting. They've got mom and dad. Now, not everybody has those luxuries. But, you know, don't make excuses. Make investments. No, that is so good. I love that. Don't make excuses. Make investments. Thank you. Great. Great conversation today. You're welcome. It's fun fields with us. We're done already. Yeah, we are done. We could go on. But people have other things. I get it. People are busy. And you and I are going to go lunch right now anyway. Great to be like you. Thank you. Great to be with you. And hey, before I go, let me just say if you'd like more information about Doug, his ministry, who he is, what he's doing, you can go to Dougfields.com. We've got all the information on our show notes and you can pick up this book at homeward.com or anywhere books are sold. And there's a course with it. So, you know, take advantage of this great, great input. And right before we go, let me just say, you know what, if you're in those first few years, that there is great hope for you. And people in the first few years who make good decisions and make those course corrections, their marriage will thrive by persevering. Their marriage will thrive into, you know, I just went through my 50th wedding anniversary. I know I sound so much younger, but you know, I'm an old guy. And I don't think we would have made it if we didn't make some pretty major course corrections those first few years. Honestly, we made major corrections in those first few years, one being a date night. And I don't think we would have made it with those decisions and having Christ in our life. That's right. Well, I'm glad you did make it. Yeah. Well, I am too. And now I'm grateful and cost me a bunch of money to buy 50 long stem roses for Kathy. You invested in your marriage. Yeah, I did. But it was a lot more expensive. Making excuses. I thought it was a lot more expensive than I thought. I'm just kind of whining about it. But I hope Kathy doesn't listen to this. Actually, she liked it a lot. And I spent the money. Anyway, great to be with you. And we'll see you next time. Well, being a parent is one of the greatest blessings on the planet. That's my opinion. I think it's your opinion too, or you wouldn't be on this podcast. But let's be honest, it can also be a challenge. And you add the words strong willed, and sometimes it's just daunting. We were fortunate enough to have three strong willed, and I think there's a strong willed wife and a strong willed husband in the Burns family, so that's a big deal. And I'm really excited today. We have my friend, Lucille Williams is with us today, and she actually has some great things to say about the strong willed child. She wrote a wonderful book called The Impossible Kid, Parenting a Strong Willed Child with Love and Grace. I love that book. And Lucille is a speaker, she's a writer. She has a great website, by the way, called Lou Says, L-U-Says.com. And like I said, she's the author of The Impossible Kid, as well as a pretty spicy book that will bring her on sometime and talk about the intimacy you crave straight talk on sex and pancakes. And anyway, she is one of my favorite people on the planet. She's married to her husband, Mike, who is a pastor. And I'll let her talk about their five-year fight. I just love that story. And she's written a bunch of other books, too, that we'll talk about some other time. But Lucille, I want to get right to it. Welcome to the Homeward Broadcast. Thank you. Thanks for having me. Always a pleasure. Always a pleasure. Well, it's great to have you and to actually get to talk about strong willed children. Were you a strong willed child? Hmm, I don't think so. I was one of those good kids for the most part. Yeah. Yeah, you know what? I was kind of that kid, too. I think my wife was a strong willed child, but I don't know if I'd get in trouble for saying that on the air. And I think I just did say it on the air. So there's words like obnoxious and disagreeable, strong willed, of course, stubborn, all these words are words that sometimes describe at least the characteristics of a strong willed child. And yet you have hope for kids who are strong willed, hope for the kid, but also hope for the parents. And I want you to speak about that. Yeah, obstinate, strong willed, strong-spirited, stubborn. That translates to leader, faithful follower of Jesus, someone who stands for their convictions. My little strong willed one, my worst one was my daughter, and she's an adult now. And she's amazing. She's amazing. And she's married to a pastor, and she's doing God's work, and she's an amazing mom and a great wife, and she's a leader, and she stands for her convictions, and she's such an amazing daughter. I could not ask for a better daughter. I've said that about our kids. I said, Kathy, they'll be leaders, and they are. But boy, sometimes just it's tough in those seasons when a mom and a dad are just going, wow, are we going to make it through this time? Now what's interesting is sometimes I think that the strong willed child, now you can boast about Monica now that she's older, but there were these moments. But I think the strong willed child sometimes is tough on a marriage. And you talked about you and Mike having what you called the five-year fight, or I think you said the five-year battle. Talk about that and how that relates. Yes, yes. It's funny because with the strong willed kid, I used to sometimes call my husband and go, if I'm dead, it was Monica. Just know that that's why I'm dead. Not Monica's dead, you're dead. Exactly. But yeah, I mean, my husband and I, we're feisty. We're strong-spirited. We both, when we got married, we didn't know Jesus. And so all we knew was to fight for ground. That's all we knew was to try to get the other person to do what we wanted. I need this, I need that, and you're not giving it to me. And that's what we knew. I came from a big Italian family. We were really good at fighting. I learned how to fight as a child. It's one thing that was allowed in my family. You were allowed to fight with adults. I don't think I've ever met an Italian family that doesn't fight. That has something to do with pasta. I know. I remember my grandmas. My great-grandma spoke Italian, so she didn't speak English. And she used to fight with my grandmother in Italian, and they'd be screaming at each other. I was listening to this movie with subtitles, and it was in Italian, and I was recognizing words, and I'm like, oh, those are swear words. They were screaming at each other. I didn't even know what there was. There was always fighting around me. So when I got married, fighting with your spouse, that was just normal. You fought about stuff. And if you didn't like something, you spoke up and you fought about it. So you had a five-year battle is what you're saying. Five years, yeah. We would sometimes fight for two weeks at a time. It was brutal. We were terrible to each other. And so about five years in, the Lord got a hold of both of us, and we became Christians. And then I was like, okay, I think I need to do this differently. And I started reading scripture. And I remember the day I saw submit, I'm like, what in the world is that doing in my Bible? There's no way I'm submitting to him. I've been fighting with him for five years. I'm not giving up this ground now. But then I realized, okay, God, I'll surrender this. And then I learned how to have a marriage the way God designed it. And it made all the difference. And actually, it's funny because the word submit, I have run from, but it's now part of Kathy's and my goal in our marriage to submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. And it's nine words. And it's really an important thing. I need to submit by serving her. She submits by serving me. And I think that's a model for our kids. It's not easy to do, obviously, especially when we weren't raised with that kind of a model and it doesn't sound like you were either. Now, here's something that happens. And I've thought about this in reading your book. Parents feel shame when their kids have bad behavior. And I was just on an airplane and I watched this woman have to deal with a kid who had a tantrum. He had an A plus tantrum during the flight. And she was trying to reason with him, which didn't work real well. But the part I want to talk about first is the idea of parents feel shame because their kids were doing so bad. What do you say to a parent who feels like they're a horrible parent because their kid is making poor decisions or bad decisions or just being a rough kid? Yeah. Well, kids are going to be kids. They're figuring it out. They're testing the boundaries. They're seeing what they can get away with. They're going to... A lot of kids... I mean, I don't know of a kid who hasn't thrown at least one tantrum and it's usually out in public where the mom or the dad or both are totally mortified. But we don't have control of that, right? We cannot control our kids. Just like God doesn't control us, our kids have choices. And we're saved by grace and we all have free will and our children have free will and they get to do what they want to do. The only thing we have control of is how we respond to them. So now that my kids have kids, I tell them, don't worry about what your kids do. You just focus on how you're handling what they do. That's when they ask me. What kind of advice would you give somebody whose kid is out of control and you're embarrassed? Well, it depends on each circumstance, obviously, because sometimes, like I know children, you give them a little bit of sugar and they wig out. You got to notice your kids patterns. I've seen kids like that. Like even my two grandkids, my daughters, two little ones, when they come over to grandma and grandpas and like, let's say we're taking them for the weekend, I've noticed if I give them a treat, suddenly their behavior gets different than it was before. I'm like, okay, we're cutting out the sugar. So you have to look at the path. So that's one, that's a kind of a simple fix. No, but it's a good fix. And a lot of times parents don't get that. Yeah. Or you got to really think about unpack what's going on. Like, okay, did they get sleep last night? Because if your child didn't get sleep, you're going to have behavioral things. Or another biggie is, is there something going on in the house? You know, as parents, we might have a conflict or we might have something really stressful or we might have just lost our job or we might have a health scare. And the little ones are watching. They feel what's going on in the house, but they don't know how to express those feelings. So if they start wigging out, you have to stop and take inventory and go, what is going on in this house? I'm not saying it's the parent's fault. I'm just saying maybe there's something going on with the child that they don't know how to express themselves. And so they're on emotion overload. And so they're acting a certain way. So if it, yeah. So with tantrums, you just got to let them go. And you know, sometimes once they start going, like I remember my middle son, he'd be in the hallway throwing a little fit, just in the hall, kicking and screaming. And my husband and I would just wait till he was done. And then when he was done, we're like, okay, what do you want? It's hard not to take it personal, but you're really right. There are certain things you can do. And certain things are really simple, like the, get the sugar out of their body. If they're going a little, you know, whackadoo on that, you're right. What surprised you about parented? You know, it sounds like you guys, you know, didn't have a background in terms of, you know, you didn't have the perfect role models or whatever growing up. What surprised you? Good, bad, and ugly. Yeah. Well, one thing was just how emotionally affected you could be by your children. I mean, I remember filling out my daughter's kindergarten forms in the elementary school she was going to go to and I'm sitting in the front lobby and I'm filling it out and I can't stop crying. I mean, it was like, I'm just blubbering and crying and crying. The idea of her going to kindergarten, just like, it just crushed me. Like what is wrong with me? Like grow up or something. Like, are you a baby? And just how they, you know, just affect you. And then, you know, you, you get your sea legs a little bit. And so you have one and you, you know, you get in a groove and you think, you know what you're doing. And then the next one comes. So you try some of the things out that you did on the first one. And you're like, wait a minute, this isn't working. Right. What, but this worked with that one and you got to do a whole other strategy because this is a different kid. And then I remember when I had two, I remember thinking, okay, I got this. I got this parenting thing now. I'm like, we know what to do. We've got this. We know exactly how to, and then the third one came and he was so different from his siblings and everything that worked for them did not work for him. And he was a different kid. And we had a, so basically just changing up the strategy, learning your child, learning who they are, what makes them tick. Yeah. I talk sometimes about how parents disciple their kids. And I talk, I say personally tailored discipleship or personally tailored parenting, because like you say, a lot of times, you know, one child is going to be compliant. Next kid will be strong willed and you know, it blows our mind. I had a woman say to me recently, I am so glad my last kid who was the most strong willed wasn't my first. I would have never had children again. And so that was, you know, one of those things where, you know, we do have to learn this and it's complicated, but it gives me great pleasure to hear what you're saying because it reminds us that, yeah, we need to adapt. And in football, they call it calling an audible and yet sometimes you have to call an audible. Right. Right. I had to learn a prayer and my prayer for my kids, because again, they were strong willed, was Lord help me to parent the children I have, not the child I was or the child I thought I was going to have. And that was a really helpful prayer to me to realize that, you know, they weren't going to act like me and they weren't going to act like my wife, Kathy. And I mean, there are obviously traits in there, but I needed to say, no, I don't, I'm not, I was probably an easier kid to grow up with. At least my brother said that, that I was the youngest. So of course, youngest are always perfect. But my parents didn't probably have as much trouble with me as they did with the others. And so in my mind, my kids were going to be me and not my kids are me. There's certain traits they have of me, but that's fascinating. Listen, we're going to take a real quick break and we'll be right back. Welcome back. I'm Jim Burns. Lucille Williams is with it. I actually wanted to play music. I wanted to play either the Chuck Berry, what's the other guy's name? The Lucille song. It's not just Chuck Berry, but Little Richard, Kenny Rogers. And then I found out that on podcasts you can't do that because I was going to play that. I bet you people have for years, you know, sang that song to you. Oh yeah, I've gotten that for sure. I'm not going to sing the song to you today, but anyway, I was going to and then we found that we couldn't do it integrity wise and so you didn't get the song. But anyway, you're back and I'm so glad you're back. You know, Kathy and I weren't always on the same page when it came to parenting. I mean, we read parenting books together and there weren't podcasts when we were around raising our kids, but there were plenty of there's plenty of content. We just always weren't on the same page. And yet, you know, we had to figure it out. What do you say to the couple who really wants to do a good job parenting, but they're not always on the same page? For us, it was discipline. I discipline differently than Kathy did. What's your what's your input on that? I think that that's a common thing for all couples that parent together because we all have a different view. We were parented differently. We have different personalities. Our kids are different. Like you know, back to the old, the you know, the three we had were so different. The first two were more in your face. I'm not doing that. Where the third one was like he looked at me and go, yes, mommy. I'd say, Joey, don't do that. Yes, mommy. He always I never it was like he was so easy. But then as soon as you turned around, he was the one sneaking out the back door and climbing under the fence and then running down the street. He was like compliant in front of you. But then you turn around the other two. They did it right. They were just like, I'm not doing that. But what I discovered as you know, I don't want to say co-parent because you know, we were married. your co-parents. Your children seeing you in harmony is more important than which approach you take. And at the end of the day, your marriage and your example of marriage and how you treat each other in your marriage is more important than fighting over whether or not they get dessert that night or and sometimes it's more serious things. But a lot of times, like my husband and I would have different ideas and I would just have to go, is it that big of a deal to make this a conflict in our marriage, which then affects the kids worse than whenever it was that we disagreed on? Yeah, you know, one of my parenting books, I have a section called United We Stand Divided We Fall. And my point was you don't have to always agree, but you might have to agree to disagree and then, you know, get behind this. I mean, I've heard horror stories where somebody has said, yeah, you know, I was disciplining my child or I was giving him some consequences. And you know, the other spouse came in and said, no, no, no, no, we're not going to do it that way. It's okay here, you know. And you know, that's just horrible. That's just not good, not a good idea at all. And yet, you know, there's times in my life where I've, you know, with Kathy, we just we disagreed on things, discipline we disagreed on, we disagreed on some of the educational things. You know, some of the kids have master's degrees, so they kind of sort of did okay, right? But it sounds like Kathy's way, not my way. So I had to learn to bite my tongue early. You know, we talk about biting our tongues with our kids sometimes, especially our adult kids. You have adult kids, I have adult kids. And so, you know, keep your mouth shut, the welcome mat out, that kind of a thing. Sometimes we have to bite our tongue with our spouse and say, is this the battle that I want to do or not? And so I found that our kids were educated and sometimes disciplined differently. But I don't think they thought we were ever on opposite pages. They tried to get us there because kids will do especially that strong willed child. Yeah, agreed to support. Did they ever do that where they kind of worked you against Mike? Oh, yes. Kids are masters at that. You know, dad said it's okay if I this mom said that we always said, what did mom say? What did dad say? I remember when my kids were little, they would say, I want to call dad. I go, okay, let's call him. So I dialed the phone, here you go. And I hear them just telling all about, you know, mom did this and mom did that. They'd be telling on me. He'd go, okay, let me talk to your mom. Good. He'd put me on the phone and go. And it was like, we always knew we were going to support each other. Good idea. Yeah. And I think that's helpful advice. It's worth listening to the podcast on that. So when you're in the midst of tension, you suggest what you say in your book, the three And that would be calm, clean and control, or excuse me, clean might be the fourth one, calm, clear and control. And I want you to talk about that. Yeah. You know, our kids are going to freak out sometimes. They're going to go crazy. But if a three year old's having a little tantrum, don't fight with a three year old. Don't fight with a five year old. Don't fight with a 10 year old. Don't fight with a teenager. Just let them do their thing. Let them have their little whatever. I mean, I remember our daughter would go in her room and kick her wall and scream, I hate them. I hate them. I hate them. And we would just laugh. It's great to laugh because it's also, I hear people who are broken because their kids said, I hate you. Oh yeah. We heard that a lot. I mean, we heard that if you didn't do what she wanted, she would. And I remember my son, the very first note I ever got from him, he asked me how to spell out the words mean mommy. And he handed it to me because I wouldn't let him do whatever it was he wanted to do that day. That was the very first note I ever got from him. And it was the cutest little thing. But if you're not getting that kind of thing, you're not being a parent because your kids have got to disagree with you. And if they don't disagree with you, you are not doing what you're supposed to do. But you could do it in a loving way. But if she wanted to express herself and say she hated us, okay, that's how she feels right now. And when she calmed down, we tell what we love you. So even in the midst of their getting crazy, you got to stay calm because getting crazy with them is not good. And it's hard. It is really hard because your heart is breaking and you feel bad for them. You're questioning, am I doing this right? But you got to figure it out and stay calm. And then what I found with my children is clear objectives. This is what I'm expecting. And this is what's going to happen if you don't do this. So I can remember saying to my daughter, if you want to spend the afternoon in your room, then continue doing A, B and C because you're going to end up in your room. And so she keeps doing it. Okay, sweetheart, you know, you're headed that way. I'm just letting you know, you are choosing to put yourself down for a nap or whatever the thing was. So it's like clear. We need to let them know. We can't just make up the rules on them. We can't say, oh, well, since you did that, since you played with the ball in the house, now you don't get to play for the rest of the day. Well, did you tell them they're not allowed to play with that ball in the house? Because if there's a ball, kids are going to play with it. So we need to be clear on what we expect and what the rules are and then have control. We need to be the parent. We need to have control of ourselves. We can't always have control of our kids. I mean, I know I didn't. Sometimes I was just like, okay, you'd be in public and they do stuff and you're like, oh, well, what am I going to do? They're freaking out or whatever they're doing. So but you can stay in control. And remember, it's not a reflection of you. It's just that's just what's happening that day. Because sometimes you can look like a really bad parent, but you're not. You're a good parent. And you know, we're embarrassed because people are watching. But if we're staying in control and we're loving them through whatever they're going through, that's good parenting. Who cares who's watching or what they think? They're not the ones that are going to be with you 20 years from now when they're adults. You know what I love about this conversation is I feel like because you've been through it, your kids are older now, you got grandkids is as always, you're mentoring some of the younger moms who are listening, some of the younger dads who are listening because they need to have the freedom to realize that it's not easy during this time and that they can't take it as personally. But they need to hear people have said, Oh, no, I've taken it personally. It's been incredibly difficult at times. Yet, you know what, you're going to get through it. And here's really how you do it. Because I think we learn from our mistakes. Somebody once said, you know, how did you get so smart? Well, from mistakes. Exactly. And so it's the mistakes that we make. And so I really love that. Now you came from more of what you would call a dysfunctional family, dysfunctional background. A lot of people who come from dysfunction just means broken, and I think every family's a little bit broken. But when it comes to kind of the parent who's somewhat wounded, a lot of times they're parenting out of their deficit or they're parenting out of their wounds or they don't know how to parent when they weren't parented healthy. What kind of advice do you give to that person says, this is all fine, but you don't understand my background. Well, you do understand the background because of your background. Well, and what you described, that was me. I mean, every step of the way, I didn't know. I didn't know if what I was doing was going to be good for my kids or bad for my kids. Because while you're raising them, it's not a sprint, it's a marathon. That just seems like it never ends. And I didn't know if the choices I was making were the right choices for them. I didn't know if I was a good parent. I knew I was doing the best I could, but I really didn't know. And I knew that I had a lot of stuff. I had a lot of dysfunction and I had things about me that were not good. Your kids get to see a front row of that. They're in the front row of the theater. They watch all of those things that we're struggling with when we lose it, when we have our meltdowns, whatever. They're right there. We're rude to the person at the other side of the counter. They're right there watching. So what I learned to do is just when I was able to start realizing, okay, they're seeing this, embrace my weaknesses, talk to them about it and go, make sure they know it's not about them. Sometimes you just got to own it. Your mom was having a really bad day and I'm sorry that I was short with you or I'm sorry that I hollered at you or I'm sorry that I didn't respond in a way that was right. If I didn't treat their dad right, I'd go to my kids and I'd sit down with each one and go, you know what? You saw mommy do this with daddy. You saw how I spoke to him and that was so rude and wrong and I'm sorry that I did that in front of you. That's called guilty. Yeah. Yeah. And really getting help. Yeah. And what's great about it is, and I was up where you and Mike used to live in California. I was up in that area. I was speaking at a women's group last week in Westlake Village. A church up there and I was thinking that there were young women mainly with young kids and I was thinking what they need is mentors. I would even say to any of our listeners, if they don't have mom mentors, then find your Lucille who can kind of say, yeah, my life wasn't perfect and it still isn't perfect, but here's what I've learned because again, you're just given great, great input in your book and again, I'm going to show the book. I love the book. There it is right there. It's called The Impossible Kid and then it says parenting a strong-willed child with love and grace and we don't have much time left, but I want you to tell us how do you parent a child with love and grace in the midst of chaos and confusion and all the things that are going on? Right. Right. Well, first you have to give grace to yourself and you have to be loving to yourself and your kids need to see that and when things come up that you realize, oh man, I need help with this, get the help you need because getting the help for you is getting the help for your children. So whether that's a mentor or a counselor or whatever, a doctor, whatever, get the help you need and basically give your children grace too. They're going to make mistakes. My kids always knew if they came and told us this is what happened and this is what I did, they didn't get in trouble. My husband and I would say, okay, what do we need to do to fix it? How can we help you and how do you want us to help you? It wasn't like if something happened at school that they had to go fix or something, they weren't in trouble at home. When they came and they outed themselves, we just helped them get through whatever it was and so this way when things came up, they were willing to talk to us about it and I think it really cut back on the line. Right, right. I mean, that's love and grace, but it's also a safe environment and some kids don't feel safe with their parents because they think they're going to blow up, they're going to bite. I hope they don't bite, but they're going to do whatever. Again, that's really, our conversation has been really good news for parents who are like in over their heads with kind of the chaos or a kid who's stubborn or a kid who's very strong-willed. Lucille, thank you so much for being on the program today. I just appreciate you so much and again, you can go to luces.com. You can see much about her books. There's blogs. There's so many things, good, good things. At Homeward, we have the privilege of sometimes working with Lucille. She spoke at a Refreshing Your Marriage conference with Doug Fields and myself. She crushed it. She was so good, but she's got so much good stuff on luusays.com. So again, thanks for being with us. Thank you for having me. You know, before I call this a day, I want to talk a little bit just for a moment about creating character without crushing their spirit. And really, Lucille talked about this so, so well. How do we develop character and responsibility with kids, especially if they're strong-willed kids? So I'm going to give you four quick, quick steps. It's right out of the book that I wrote called Understanding Your Teen, but it works for any age. Number one is you give your kids responsibility. The bottom line is that you're not raising an obedient child. You're actually trying to raise a responsible adult. And so after they get to be two years old, you start giving them some responsibility. Obviously for a two-year-old, you're not giving the same responsibility as a 10-year-old or a 16-year-old. Number two step is you trust that your child will carry out that responsibility. That's important, right? Now guess what? They're going to blow it because they're humans and all of us sin and fall short of the glory of God. Well, they do too. And so when they blow it, when he blows it, when she blows it, then stand back and allow the consequences. Lucille said this. She said, you know, tell them ahead of time what's your expectation because if they don't know their expectations, that's not going to work. But allow those consequences to occur and listen to this. While you express empathy, oh, I'm so sorry, buddy. You know, we are going to have to take your cell phone, you know, because we said that if you were late for curfew, that's older kids. Oh, I'm so sorry. You know, you're not going to be able to play with that toy or you don't have screen time today because we'd already talked about this. So you're expressing kind of empathy. But then the fourth step, and this is such a key step, is turn right back around and give them that responsibility all over once again, trusting that they're going to make that decision. And that's just a great way to, you know, create character and responsibility in their lives without crushing their spirit. And we all blow it. And what you do, Lucille said it. Sometimes we just have to say, hey, I'm so sorry. That was all about me today. And that was not about you. You didn't deserve the wrath that I just gave you. Yeah, you were probably wrong in this. But let me also tell you, it was more about me. So anyway, that's just a wrap for today. I hope that's helpful. I love Lucille Williams. I love her husband. I love their family. I just think she did such a great job today on the podcast, but also go to her books, find out more about her. And you can join me next time on the next podcast with Homeward.com with Jim Burns. Homeward is trying to help families succeed. And please let others know about this. It's just the beginning of our podcast. We're so excited that people are subscribing. People are telling us that they like our podcast. That makes us feel good. And don't forget to check out Homeward.com. And if you have any questions, we have a voice line. So you can do questions. And I'm going to actually do a Q&A. I love Q&A. And I'm going to do a Q&A sometime soon. And so you can call the voice line and ask your question, keep it concise. And then we'll do a whole show on that. You call the voice line at 1-800-397-9725. And my great thanks to Elijah Hamilton, who's here, Kelly Fellows, Cindy Ward, and to Mike Segovia and all the others who help us make this podcast possible. So I'm Jim Burns signing off. We'll see you next time. Welcome to Homeward, I'm Jim Burns and I know many people listen to the podcast or watch it on the Homeward YouTube channel, not on the day it's launched. And that's one of the great things about podcasts. I love that you can listen or watch anytime you want at your convenience, of course. However, today the conversation is taking place on the exact day that we're launching for teens and for preteens called A Student's Guide to Sexual Integrity. And I am just smiling. I never thought I would write another book on sexual integrity and I never thought I would write a book, another book for kids. And yet that's happening. And the podcast for me is kind of a launch party. And as some of you may know, I have spent my entire adult life helping families succeed trying to anyway, and speaking to students. So I loved that season of my life. And my parents would always say, you know, when are you going to get a real job, Jim? I would tell them I have a real job and it's it's great and I love it. And those days were just great days talking to kids. And yet now I focus more on parenting and marriage. That's what this broadcast podcast is on. And it's a great season in my life, too. And then it happened. The culture started changing rapidly. And especially when it came to this new, amazing student generation. These are great kids. But frankly, I mean, I had already written books on on sexuality and there are some bestselling books, probably in the Christian world. Anyway, they were the books. But with teens, I hadn't kept up with the culture because I wrote the last book in like 2008. And that's ancient when it comes to culture. And I've been saying for a number of years, somebody needs to write a loving, compassionate, God honoring book to teens about sexuality. I mean, dump mine. I hope mine was like that. But, you know, it's a new generation. And I kept saying, is it possible to stand firm behind the biblical truth of the master designer of our sexuality while bringing a new narrative of love, grace and understanding? Because I don't think we've done a good job as Christians talking about sex and sexuality. I'll just be honest with you. OK. You know, there was that Christian philosopher, Francis Schaeffer, who actually influenced me greatly when I was a brand new Christian. And I'm paraphrasing here, but he said, we must re communicate the gospel to every generation in a way that reaches them without changing the gospel. Well, that was my attempt with talking about healthy sexuality to this generation. It's my attempt with this book. I kept looking for someone else to write the book, but it didn't happen. And so Kathy kept nudging me and others. And so I decided to jump in and write the book to kids about sexual integrity. So, hey, there's a new book out. It came out today on sexual integrity. Well, to do that, I asked my guest on this podcast, Erin Mascha, to help me. And that's exactly what she has done. Now, I might be biased, but I think Erin is one of the finest writers and thinkers on sexual integrity I've ever known. I met Erin in kind of a funny way. I was doing a series of videos on sexuality for her church. It's called North Point Community Church in Alpharetto, Georgia. It's a little tiny church there. And I'm kidding. It's a big church. And they asked me to send in the script for the filming ahead of time, which is fine. That's usual. They were going to put it on a teleprompter. And the day before I flew in, I got the script back and it had all kinds of edits and changes, and I am not acting like a big deal. But no one had ever done that before. And I was like, you know, frantic about going there. And I was also doing a seminar for them. And and so I sent a note to a guy named Steve, who was, you know, in charge with me of talking about this. And I said, I can't guarantee I'll use this. I just got this. And it wasn't until later that night that I read it. And every change was a good one. In fact, it made the script better. It made everything better about it. So I immediately wrote Steve and said, OK, OK, I love the changes. I want to meet the editor or the writer, whoever it was. And it was Aaron. And the next day, she was a part of the filming and along with her 16 year old son, he had to actually watch me for hours talk about sexuality in the studio. I mean, talk about awkward. But anyway, it was really fun to get to know him to Aaron made additional changes during the filming and they were all awesome. I made a mental note that day that if I ever wrote another book for students about sexuality, which I didn't think I was going to do, I would want Aaron to help me. And that's why her name is on the book. And that's what happened. I mean, she helped me with wording and with language and with content. And actually, as a woman who I deeply respect, she gave me the female perspective and she really knows what she's doing. Plus, she has some impressive credentials. She is the parent engagement director at North Point Community Church. She's been involved with children's ministry and student ministry and family ministry for well over 20 years now. She doesn't look that if you see it on the Homeward YouTube channel. And she's a wonderful writer. But most importantly, she's a great wife and a mom. She's married to Reese, who's a great guy. They have four amazing kids, all teens and one almost teen. And it's just great to have you on the podcast. Welcome, Aaron, today. I'm so happy you're here. Oh, so am I, Jim. Thanks so much for having me. And anyway, I just you know, I went on and on about this book and I went on and on about, you know, our relationship. But I just so greatly love the fact that we got together and we kind of put this thing together. And again, I just need to say thank you. Thank you for being such a great writer and using your gifts. But also just thank you for being the Christfather, the leader that you are, the mom. And I kind of sense that a mom and a dad or even a grandpa, because I'm thinking about my grandkids, too, you know, wrote this book, really kind of thinking about trying to help our kids, too. We're all desperate. I appreciate you being so open handed and inviting me in to work with you on it. It's really been a joy and I feel like such important work. Yeah, so so so great. Now, did you ever think you were going to, you know, be a part of writing a book on sexual integrity? I mean, had that ever been in your mind? I've never asked you that question. Well, you know, in kindergarten, when they ask you, what do you want to do when you grow up? That's exactly what I said. I'm just kidding. I want to write sex books. Yeah, they would have like said, we need to call her parents right now. For sure. But no, yeah, it definitely wasn't anything that was on my radar. But but I'm so glad I got to be a part of it. What about fears? I mean, you know, any of us today, I talked to people who are very good friends of mine, and they weren't sure they were going to endorse this book because they were just afraid that, you know, we were going to say something weird or whatever. They'll read it and they'll love it. But but the point is, I mean, did you have any fears about this when I, you know, randomly said, would you be interested? Yeah, I mean, I think you're right. The topic is a little bit of a landmine, especially for churches. And it can be really tricky. I think had you just said, hey, could you go write a book about it? I would have been terrified. But I feel like we have this incredible foundation of the original purity code book we kind of got to start from. And so that made it a lot less intimidating. And I feel like I had the safety net of, you know, your name is on it really. As well. So I felt confident. They'll write the letters to me and I'll get letters. I'll guarantee it from the conservative side and from the liberal side, because, you know, it's probably it's it's a very God honoring book. And at the end, the conservatives have to agree with I'm using the Bible. And I think I said it was one of the most I was telling my friend, Doug Fields, it was one of the most spiritual books I've ever written. And yet at the same time, they're not going to like that, you know, we're showing kindness, love and compassion. And yet at the same time, the liberals won't like it because I don't come with them at the end where where it you know, where they would want me to be. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, it was interesting because the first chapter, we called it awkward and or I guess I called it awkward because I always say that word awkward when we're talking about this. Why do you think it's so awkward for parents, sometimes not even for the kids? Well, when they're teens and preteens kind of, but even when they're younger, it's not awkward for them. They don't know that's supposed to be awkward. But for parents, it's awkward. Why do you think it's so awkward? I think really two reasons. I think one, it's awkward because we all know it's so important, you know, and it matters and you want to choose the right words and you want to communicate it the right way. And for a lot of us, we didn't get great education on sex when we were younger. And so I think there's a lot of pressure around it. And so sometimes parents feel like they got to wait till they have the perfect wording or the right thing. And then they end up maybe not even doing it all because they don't feel like they've got the right language. And then I think sometimes it's our own baggage of mistakes that we've made. And so then we feel like, well, how can I step into the space and say, you should do this when maybe I didn't do that in my own past? I think that makes it muddy for us to. Yeah. No, I think you're right. You know, and you know, it's funny is you just brought up two things that when I do a seminar on this, number one, I'll be in front of hundreds of people. I'll say, how many of you receive good, positive, healthy sex education? And typically there's about four that raise their hand. I just did this at an event you weren't at, but but you had you and Reese had been at something at Wind Shape and I was doing another event. And I asked the entire crowd, how many of you received good, positive, healthy sex education? One person, it was the worship leader who one of the worship leaders said yes. No one else did. And so, again, that makes it awkward for us. But then at the same time, it's also baggage. People always say, well, if I messed up, how can I talk to my kids about this? And what I always say is you don't have to give them all the details. You just want to say, you know, because I'm so passionate about it now because I didn't do it right. And then leave it at that. Your kids might push you on it, but you don't have to give them everything. But you're right. That's so key. And it is it is awkward. Now, we had this conversation and I kind of smiled because the purity culture. Funny enough, you know, I've read a book called The Purity Code, and I didn't get hit by the purity culture. People who, you know, were all angry at me. So so apparently I kind of passed the test or something. And at the same time, I was very biblical. But you grew up in the purity culture and you you grew up in a home where the purity part was was there. You went to a school, your college. They talk a lot about the purity culture. And, you know, there's kind of the good, bad and the ugly of that, because a lot of times now that we talk about purity culture, everybody goes, it was horrible. Actually, there were some really good things about that. People made some wise choices. I just had somebody. Now, you know, here I am. I was their youth pastor. So, you know, they they now have kids who have kids. Right. And they said, you know, we chose to to wait and we're so glad we did. And we did because we made a commitment when we were in high school. We didn't feel it was awkward. We thought it was great. And we made a commitment. And that really was a foundation for our relationship. And and I love that. That's good. But there's the good, bad and ugly. Talk about the good, bad and ugly. You have a greater understanding of that than I do. Well, I grew up in a home with Christian parents, and I feel like I did get good, healthy sex education and was involved with great churches. And I think I do think that we've talked about this before. The heart behind it, I think, was great. I think the intention was to help students, teenagers understand, you know, the perspective and the weight of sexual activity and how it could affect us. But I think some people, you know, delivered that message better than others. So I don't feel like personally, I grew up with a lot of baggage around it. I feel like I had a relatively good experience with it. But I do have friends who felt incredibly harmed by, you know, the language that was used or the way things were talked about. And in hindsight, there's some illustrations or word pictures that I think, oh, you know, if you follow that through to the end, that maybe was not a great way to describe it. Or but I think the intention behind it was good. I just think the delivery wasn't always. Yeah, yeah. Well, you know, and I really appreciate you saying that, because I think now that I hear some of those illustrations, I go, well, that's a horrible illustration. Or there was a book that was horrible in terms of how it came across. And I thought it was from the very beginning. And then the, you know, the guy recanted that he even believed that stuff now. And and, you know, there was weirdness in it. But you can't throw the baby out with the bathwater because actually some of that. I really appreciate you having the positive attitude about it, because I think people had good intent. And I've learned a lot. You know, I can remember speaking and you were very young then, but I can remember speaking in Washington, D.C. and 35,000 kids in Washington, D.C. made a commitment to sexual purity. Right. And now I realize that that didn't have as powerful of an effect as if their parents would have talked to them. So I'm standing on a stage with a lot of kids and they sign these cards and all that kind of good stuff. And, you know, I didn't know any better. It was I wasn't making them feel guilty. I was like excited. But what I realized was that all studies now show that the more positive value centered sex education comes from parents, not from a youth speaker who's in front of a stage with, you know, some fancy music group before them and caught up in the emotion. They sign those things. And I wouldn't do it that way now. But the intent was good. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, pretty I mean, pretty crazy. Now, we we we have this thing called the purity code and you actually help me tweak it. And again, it was one of those Erin moments where I just went, oh, my gosh, she's so good at this. I just jumped at it because you kind of you kind of rephrase something. And this what we call the integrity code. It says, in honor of God, my family and the future he has planned for me. I commit with God's help to live my life with sexual integrity. That's a really good phrase. What if kids started living by that? Yeah. It'd be really powerful. Yeah. And yet there were kids who had these phrases, phrases kind of like that, not totally, who they felt really bad because they they missed the mark. And studies show that kids did those made those commitments and then they kind of missed the mark. What did they feel like? You have friends who are in that, you know, group. Well, and to be honest, it was my story. I grew up in a home where I got I feel like I had good Christian education when it came to sex. And I understood, I felt like I understood the idea of what God wanted for me. And yet still found myself in a situation in a relationship late in high school where I compromised in little ways. And before you know it, you find yourself in this space where you've, you know, made this mistake that you never intended to. And I think what what was overwhelming to me at that stage is my first year of college. I felt just so much shame and guilt. And I felt like I had wrecked everything, you know, that that God's future for me was now not as bright as it would have been, that I had, you know, that there were these irreparable changes that had happened. And I think some of that to me is why I love the shift in language from purity to sexual integrity. Yeah. Is for good or bad. I think that for our generation, a lot of us, the purity word got locked in with virginity. And so then it's like, well, now I had it and I've lost it. And so, you know, a lot of students, I think, will go the route of like, well, what what does it matter now? You know, I've already messed up. There's no point in or point in, you know, trying differently. And what I love about sexual integrity, that word, that language that just says, I can wake up today and choose to be a person who lives with sexual integrity. Now, it feels like it allows a little more room for grace and forgiveness that we, you know, that God does have a vision and a plan for how he wants us to manage that part of our lives. But there's also grace and forgiveness if we mess up. And I love that at 45, I can wake up tomorrow and choose to live a life with sexual integrity with what I watch and what I read and the the activities or experiences that I have. And so it just to me, I love that shift in language because I think it makes a little more space for, you know, for the fact that we're all sinful and we do mess up from time to time. But what's what's fascinating about it, too, is I had written a book earlier on this subject for kids and had gotten a gold medallion in the, you know, in the Christian world and all this kind of good stuff. And you know what I got ripped on by parents? The chapter on grace and forgiveness, because I said, if you mess up, you don't have to feel shame. Confess your sins to God. He's faithful and just. I'm using scripture to cleanse you and and you can move. You can move forward. And in God's eyes, he's going, you know, what sin parents wrote that wrote to me and would and not all parents. Mostly I got great stuff. But parents would write to me and say, you know, that's causing kids to go out and want to do that. And I'm saying, no, it's not. You know, people who live with shame. This is not about sexuality. This is just about the Bible. This is about God's grace. This is about the good news, the gospel. You know, we shouldn't be living with shame. And yet I know, I mean, I do. There's things where I, you know, where I just go, oh, my gosh, I did this again. Or this is an ongoing where I miss the mark. Ongoing in terms of how I treat somebody or what I do or what I say with my voice or mouth or whatever. And and yet I think it's it's it's so important for kids to to know that they can be forgiven. They can be cleansed. You know, it's a sin against your body. The Bible says that it's found in First Thessalonians four, three, where, you know, it is a sin against your body. So sometimes, you know, there are consequences. You know, today it's an epidemic of things like sexually transmitted infections. People get pregnant, you know, all kinds of things like that. Yeah, there's sometimes a sin against that. But the fact is, is that our God is bigger than that and he can help us even with confusion. You know, we'll talk later about gender identity and things like that. But but even with with confusion, God is bigger. He can help us work through that. And part of that is why is that the big sin? You know, the Bible talks about sin means to miss the mark. Well, hey, we all said, yeah. And yet why do we make that one piece such a big deal? Well, and I think that shame can then in turn be the thing that causes somebody to walk away from their church or faith or God, you know, because of that shame. And I just think we have to provide a way back, you know, because we're as we mess up, you know. Yeah, you're right. And, you know, I said something earlier about the fact that that today all studies show that the more positive value centered sex education kids get from their parents. But that's not where they go first. You know, they first go to the Internet. What do you think about the Internet? You kind of gave me some great insight. We talk about two kids in this book. What do you think about the Internet in terms of being the primary place where they get their sex education? Yeah, it's I mean, it's concerning, right? Because you can anybody can put anything on the Internet. It doesn't have to be true. It doesn't have to be, you know, like there's doesn't have to be any footnote of where you found it. You can just really put anything there. And I read an article a few years ago and I remember where it was, but it was talking about how so many middle schoolers were going. We're looking at pornography as sex education, that these sweet little middle school girls are looking at these videos. And that is the expertise on how to do these things. And sometimes it involved violence and other, I mean, just terrible things because they're just it's an easier way for them to search. But it's not a trustworthy source, as you know. Yeah, you said it's not a good idea in the and we have this in the book. It's not a good idea to go there first. Yeah. They're going to go there. Yeah. And so that's why they need, you know, who's the safest person they can find? It's not going to be the Internet. You know, another one that we talked about and you actually helped me think through this is that, you know, they do go to their friends, too. I mean, sometimes they don't talk to every friend, but they do go to their friends. That's the first time I ever heard about sexual intercourse was from I was in fifth grade and a boy told me about what sexual intercourse was. And he was about 80 percent right and 20 percent so off that I could never even say it here on this podcast. But I didn't know. I knew nothing. But, you know, you do hear things from friends, but you made a phrase and I love this. I want you to comment on it. You you you made a phrase in the book where you go. Sometimes your friends don't know as much as they as you think as they think they know or as you think they know something like that. Talk about that friends. I mean, they are going to hear it from friends, Internet friends. Yeah. Well, you know, I think we've all had that friend. I mean, even still sometimes as an adult, you have that friend that just, you know, they know everything. They've got all the answers that, you know, but then you kind of realize, oh, you don't know what you're talking about at all. You know, and I think that students like kids can go to their friend for advice about something that that kid doesn't know anything more than they do. They're just talking with speaking with a lot of confidence, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Well, it was like when I was in fifth grade, this kid told me. So I assume then I get to health class in like seventh or eighth grade. And, you know, they're talking to us again about the birds and the bees and whatnot. And I'm like, no, they're wrong. My friend said it's this way. Well, what am I thinking? But that was my mindset back then. Pretty innocent, actually, but just kind of laughing that that's how it came across. Another one is, you know, kind of the public school, our culture. I mean, that really is. And that, I mean, obviously, that entails friendships. It entails the, you know, the aspect of the Internet. But, you know, sometimes public schools are now taking the place of parents because parents aren't doing it. So they're desperate. So they're going that way. And even a secular culture, where do we have to be careful in that case? Well, I think, you know, nobody is going to care more about the hearts and the futures of our kids than we are as parents or church leaders, even. And so I think, you know, the public school, they're going to do the best they can do. But it's not their goal and desire to put my kids heart for a future of trusting God with this area of their life. And so I just think it makes them not a trusted source. You know, they're doing the best they can to try to educate kids. But they don't have a value set that aligns with my family. And why are we thinking that they that they're they're going to or they're supposed to? I mean, I don't know what is going on with us. Why we think that my daughter and I are having this conversation yesterday. She's at a public school. She's a strong Christian. But she was talking about the fact that, you know, why parents will sometimes complain to them about certain things that are going on, not just about sexuality. Well, it's a public school. They're not going, you know, that's why we need the church. And that's why we need parents to take the lead. And speaking of that, basically, what we're saying to these to these students is they could go to their parents or to a trusted adult. OK. Who are those trusted adults besides parents? Yeah. I mean, I think trusted adults can be a coach. It can be a smogger. You're at church. It can be your youth pastor. I think it can be a counselor or a mentor. I think those trusted adults are people that you can count on to be honest with you, even when it hurts, who who share your same values. I think that's a really important one. And who know like who have a relationship with God and are nudging you and encouraging you in that direction. And those are the people that, you know, you want to go to for advice. And even if especially if you're not ready to talk to parents about it and the season of parenting teenagers, I know I'm not going to be the first person that my teenagers talk to about this. But I do want to make sure that I've built a circle of people around them that I do want them to go to. You know, that may be one of the most important things we can say on this podcast today. You know, build a circle of people around them. And we can do that as parents. I mean, our kids, we we're not we're in a tradition very much like your church. So it's not like they have God parents, but we chose God parents. And part of that was we wanted them to have some other adults who were really cool, cooler than us. All of our girls think I have all daughters. They they all think that the God parents are cooler than we are. And they I found out that they kind of went to them on some of these things. And I'm going, wait, I write books on this stuff. I talk about this. Why don't you come to me? Oh, no, they went to other trusted adults. What I hear you saying is kids need someone who's safe, who have, you know, healthy God honoring values to. Yeah. And we do it in other areas. You know, if you've got a kid who's in baseball, you're going to get them a coach that's great at helping them with that. Or you've got a kid struggling with math. You're going to find a tutor. So we, you know, we bring people into our our kids lives all the time. And so we have to make sure we're doing it with with faith and sexual integrity as well. That's really good. You know, it's interesting because when you say that, you know, we have this book that launched today, Students Guide to Sexual Integrity. But we also have a series that launched today, a video series that you directed, you led. I just handed it to you and said, go for it. It came back and I was even happier. I mean, I said this to you, but I was even more happier than I thought I was going to be. It was just it's just awesome. And that's where when you're talking about safe adults, sometimes safe adults can be people who are in student ministry or children's ministry. You know, no one is I mean, sometimes parents aren't safe. But that's why I love this video series, because, yeah, you can use it in the home. And I suggest people do use it in the home, but they can also use it in student ministry type things. Where have you seen that happen? I mean, do they use that at your church? Do they use, you know, curriculum? Do these to the student leaders? Would you say to your kids, hey, go to your small group leader? Yeah, absolutely. I feel like at our church, we end up doing usually at least one series a year in our middle school ministry and our high school ministry, specifically dating, relationships, sex. And then they talk about it in small groups. And I think that's great because it hopefully breaks the ice and makes the student feel safe. That if they are wrestling with something or struggling with something or they've slipped up in that area, that they know that it's already been a safe place to talk about this. No, that's that's OK. You know, there's a chance that at your church, they'll use this new video series. And you're the expert. Not me. My face is not on it. I'm too old. So it's you. So now you're the expert. So some of these people are going to go, oh, you know, when I started writing books for kids and I have a book from three to six, three to five, six to nine. And then these moms come up to me and they go, honey, this is the guy who wrote that book about, you know, your body parts and whatnot. And these kids just look at me like creepy. So, you know, you're going to get a little that now because in each of those videos, they're done so well and it's not talking heads and just awesome. But you come on as kind of the expert and kind of help the kids. So, yeah, now now it's going to be your problem. So you'll get that at church. Hey, listen, we're going to take a real quick break and then we'll come right back. Erin Masha is with me today. We're talking about the brand new book. And I mean, like today, A Student's Guide to Sexual Integrity. And there's a book, but there's also a six session video series that we just talked about. It's available at homeworld.com. And when we come back, let's dive into the big one. Culture, gender and authority. And again, the book is not on gender identity, but there we have to talk about it because it's 2024 and we'll do that. So we'll come right back. More to come on Homeworld. I'm Erin Masha and I want to invite you into an honest conversation about one of life's most awkward yet important topics, sex. Conversations about sex can bring up all kinds of weird emotions, not the least of which is awkward. But that's not a reason to avoid the topic altogether. So if everybody's doing it, then what's the big deal? Where do you go with your questions? There are lots of voices telling you who you are, how to dress, what to think, how to feel. So how do we know what to listen to? Who can we trust to guide us? When we treat others with radical respect, we honor God. We make our lives and relationships better and we reflect God's love to the world all around us. Now, I know you might be thinking, what? I don't I don't need guardrails. I have good intentions. But what if intention isn't enough? And as you think about the path from where you are now to where you want to be, who are the friends that can help you get there? You'll hear personal stories, helpful advice and truth from the Bible about how to make wise choices when it comes to love, sex and dating. Imagine being able to look back on this stage of your life without regrets about the way you handled relationships. You're not going to get there by accident. You're going to have to decide in advance what guardrails to put in place to get to where you want to be. Join us for a student's guide to sexual integrity. Welcome back. I'm Jim Burns. And I'm smiling today because Erin Masha is with us. And Erin is the parent engagement director at North Point Community Church. And we have all the information on Erin and about her amazing ministry in the show notes to the podcast. And I want you to check out her amazing parent channel on on the website at North Point. Erin, would you give us that? Would you give us that website? It's northpoint.com. Would you give us that website? It's northpoint.org slash parent. OK, awesome. And it's wonderful. I mean, I actually am speaking next week at a place called Forest Home. And it's a conference center for families. And I'm actually using something that I took from your website on digital integrity. It's the bark dot US thing that you guys had and Homeward had one. And I actually like yours better. So I used yours instead of mine. But anyway, it's kind of funny. Anyway, I wanted to get back to the idea and dive into just a little bit of culture, gender and authority. And like I said, the book is not on gender identity. There are better books on that, frankly. I wish there were more books for kids on that. But this book is about sexual integrity for students. So it's different. The topics are different. But one of the chapters is on that. And we talk about whose voice are you listening to? Because there are so many voices being thrown at these kids. And I actually I said to a bunch of students, I was speaking to them. Funny enough, I said I don't speak to students, but periodically I do. And I said, I wouldn't want to be 14 today. I wouldn't want to be 16 because the voices that are screaming in their ear about gender and about, you know, sexuality and about God and everything else. So not in the book, but in the video series, you gave a an illustration that I just I have I want to tell you, I've stolen your illustration. I give you credit, but I've stolen your illustration. I've probably given this five times. I was just in Guatemala and I gave it twice at two different events I was speaking at because I just think it's so good. Where you talked about, you know, being at an art museum and talking about, you know, the design of the great masterpiece. So give us that illustration is just so incredible. Well, first I have to give credit because this actually Reese's. OK, well, hey, I've never given Reese credit. I've given you credit. So that's OK. So tell Reese, you know, he's not going to get credit from me. It's going to be you. OK. So the idea is that, you know, if you could imagine that you're in an art museum and you're looking at a piece of art and maybe have questions about it, you're trying to understand it, that you could, you know, just try to figure it out on your own. You could ask other people that are standing around and looking at the art with you for their insight. And it could be helpful, but nothing would be as helpful as sitting down with the artist that created the piece. The person that the master designer of this piece of art could help you understand the purpose, the meaning behind it and just all the ins and outs of it. And the parallel really is just to like all these gender identity things that kids are wrestling with today. And I'm with you. I would not want to be a teenager today. So much harder than when we were there. But that there are just so many voices and culture that are speaking into who you are and why you're that way and what this means about you. And really, the only voice that matters is the voice of the master designer. And we say in the book that the one who designed you is the only one who gets to define you. And so we just want to encourage students to go to God and his word to understand who they are and their identity, because, you know, there's just there's so many competing voices and they're not always helpful. No, no, you're right. One of the things when one of the reasons I actually even wrote the book was because I felt like so many kids and again, I have all daughters. So maybe I'm focused more on girls. I don't think I am. But but so many girls were having gender dysphoria issues at, say, about age 13. And it used to be that they would cut themselves, which is not a great idea. But nobody thought that was a good idea. It used to be that they would have an eating disorder. Those are still there, obviously. But nobody thought that was a good idea. But these girls who are going through some identity issues, well, they say, well, maybe you're gay or maybe you're trans or maybe you're bi. You know, just name name it. And and like one, we I wrote about this in the book. I gave an illustration of somebody I actually I know. And it was a young 13 year old who she didn't like to wear pink and she didn't wear bows and she kind of dressed more like a guy. So this girl, her friend said, well, you know, maybe you're a lesbian. What's a lesbian? She didn't even know. And so she played out a lifestyle of a lesbian for about a year and a half. And then finally, she kind of went, you know, I don't think I'm a lesbian. I guess I'm not. You know, you can be a woman, a wonderful woman, and not wear pink bows. And, you know, like to do all the girly stuff. But in her mind, she was she was being defined by a friend, by a voice, until she really looked at the voice of God. I think it's possible to have conversations with people who are struggling in that area without being mean and angry. Yeah. I think so, too. Yeah. We've made a mistake, because, again, sometimes as Christians, we're so tied into being mean spirited about this. We're not mean, scared about other stuff. And then we get mean spirited about this. That doesn't mean that we don't that we like for me. I'm very conservative theologically when it comes to, you know, I see the Bible saying that marriage is for a man and a woman. So, again, some people are going to disagree with me. OK, they are. Again, I this may sound arrogant, but I sometimes think that some of the people who are making some decisions on their gender are actually kind of forfeiting their spiritual, their spiritual purpose. But I'm still going to love and embrace them. Is it in your mind, is it possible to to to love a child through some of that trans through some ideas that they're doing without, you know, scaring them away? Mm hmm. I think so. I mean, I think that if you imagine, you know, like the example you gave a 13 year old girl who is questioning the whole future that she may be imagined for herself or that or everything that is familiar, how incredibly traumatizing it would be for her to be wrestling with those things. And I think sometimes we just forget to lead with empathy and kindness. No, and compassion for what that person is experiencing. And we can do that without agreeing with them. You know, we don't have to agree with someone to be kind or to be. No, no, that's a key point. That's a key point. We don't. So what we have to do is we have to change the narrative. We have let sometimes even the super, you know, kind of conservative types change, you know, lead with that narrative of hate almost. And those are people that I don't even hardly know or deal with. But but they have so. So they put people like you and me in that place who really want a biblical foundation, who believe that, you know, that that God is the master diviner designer. We believe what the Bible says. And yet at the same time, we're not going to be hating on people. We need to we need to change the narrative and parents need to change the narrative big time on that. Now, there's another subject and we don't have a lot of time. In fact, we're probably out of time, but we're going to keep going. It's a podcast. I want to talk about pornography because, again, it is so prevalent. I'm I'm so concerned about this generation of kids who, you know, boys now had just entered into the age of 10 where it had been 11. And with girls, it had been like 14. And now it's age 11. People can Google me on this. I mean, it's there. That's the latest stuff. And for some, it's a lot younger. You know, what's your concern about pornography? What are you seeing? What are you feeling? I thought you really helped me walk through some issues that I've walked through many times. But I thought you you helped me with some wording that was really good. Yeah. Well, I think it feels really scary for a whole lot of reasons. I think there's a whole generation of kids and students who, you know, whose brains are being rewired by what they're seeing and exposing themselves to regularly. And, you know, that's going to have repercussions down the road that are unfortunate. I think they're becoming really desensitized to what they're seeing because it's just so accessible. You know, like we joke that when I was a kid, like I think the first time I ever saw a naked picture was like a piece of a magazine scrap in the woods somewhere. You know, for one of our kids, the first time they stumbled onto pornography, it was through an iPad and it was a graphic video, you know, that like it's just so it's just so different in so many ways. It can almost feel like our kids are being hunted by the pornography industry because they can just so easily like stumble upon it. Oh, and when you talk about easy, I mean, graphic is horrible. But like I was talking to a kid not too long ago who was 13 and said his friend said, do you want to see Miley Cyrus with her top off? Yeah. And they went to YouTube. And, you know, there was there was Miley on YouTube. And so, you know, YouTube has lots of great inspiration and things like that. It's you know, kids are on YouTube. They're they're not going straight to pornography. But then they see it and they go, wow, I want to see some more of that kind of stuff. And then they go there. And you're really right. And, you know, we talked a lot about your mind and how we need to hold even in this video series, guardrails and your mind matters. And and the most powerful sex organ is not your private parts. It's your mind. And the Bible says renew your mind. And I talked about that on the last podcast where I did a just Jim podcast. I don't do many of those, but I did one on on this. And so, you know, if you if you had if you didn't hear that podcast, you may want to go back to to what I said on that, because it was just last week in terms of what what what is the scripture saying about this kind of stuff? Because, you know, God's not like the angry God. But, you know, it's important for us to make sure that that our kids do have a place that they feel safe where they can talk about pornography and parents. If your kids ever do view pornography and they talk to you about it, then instead of just throwing the one guy I know had a two thousand dollar Mac Air, which is pretty expensive because mine's cheaper, I think. And he busted it. He was so bad. So he must. And then he's like, oh, man, now I've done two things. I got my kid all freaked out and I just busted my computer. But instead of doing that, you say, you know what, honey, that's not it. This is it. This is what God says. And so it's not that it's this. And that's your chance to be able to teach them about good God honoring sexuality. And again, we happen to think that this book on sex on sexual integrity is a really, really key book. A student's guide to sexual integrity. You know, the book and the video covers lots of other topics that we haven't talked about. How far is too far? Friendships, dating, sexual abuse, something that I call radical respect, even changes in your body. Lots of stuff. Flirting, modesty, you know, something that I love the chapter on, a theology of healthy sexuality, which is on the foundation. Was there a topic that you were glad we covered in the book or the video series that you didn't see coming? Was there anything like that, where you just kind of went, this was a neat topic? Well, I think it wasn't new because it was in your original book also. But the idea of radical respect, I think is just so key because it's like, you know, this this issue starts long before you're ever in a dating relationship. You know, like the way that you view the opposite sex, the way you interact with the opposite sex. And I honestly loved what we were able to talk about in terms of modesty. That's another conversation that can be a real one in mind with young ladies. And I just loved being able to kind of like, let's put some new language around it and, you know, find a new way to talk about it that hopefully gives better context, you know, and helps people understand. I think it's possible to talk about these issues and do it in a loving, kind manner. You know, that's kind of blunt, but at the same time, not not with the edge that we Christians did. I don't know why we did that, but we did. And that's why I think we're getting ripped on for, you know, probably a lot of people were the purity culture, going back to what we talked about the very beginning. You know, partly it was just the attitude and the vibe and the tone in which we did this. And it's possible to to lead with love, to practice kindness, to boast that God created their bodies and that, you know, God is the master designer, that God loved that same God that designed their sexuality, loves them unconditionally, not for what they do, but for who they are, the children. Now, that doesn't mean that he's there's not consequences. There are consequences to sin. But, you know, it's important for us to lead with those kinds of things. And I love that that was something we talked about. Well, we could go on all day. I can tell right now we need to stop. There's so much more, again, we could talk about. But thank you so much for for being on the podcast today, Erin. Thank you for being a part of this book that we're the end the video series. So so so good. Well, thanks for inviting me into the process. It's really been a joy to work with you. And I'm so excited to see how God's going to use these resources. It's going to be great. And anyway, you're the best. Please tell Reese he's wonderful. But I still am giving you the credit for that one illustration. Well, the smile on my face today is because this book has come out today and the video series to a student's guide to sexual integrity. You can go to anywhere to buy this book. You can also go to homeward.com. You can get the book and you can get the video series. So you know what I'm suggesting, parents, is that you get you get the book. And you know what? If you buy the book at homeward or if you see the videos here, is I don't make any money on this. I'm doing this. It has there's nothing about them on money. It's about trying to help kids make right and wise decisions. And but anyway, do it and then give one to the student leaders at your church and let them hear about it, too. Our goal is to change the way we share the narrative of sexual integrity. And I think we did it in this book. And I'm so grateful to Aaron and so grateful to you for listening today on the podcast next time. We'll have another topic. Julie Slattery is coming on next week, and we're going to continue a three week series on sexuality. I'm Jim Burns. And you've been listening to the Homeward Podcast or you've been watching it on the Homeward YouTube channel. Great to be with you today. Well, hi everyone. Welcome to Homeward. I'm Jim Burns and I am so honored that you would be here with us today and I'm actually honored to have an incredible guest. Her name is Michelle Watson Canfield. We're going to talk about why girl dads matter. You know what? Even if you're not a girl dad, I think you're going to get something out of this. My experience, because I am a girl dad, is that I never dreamed how special it would be, how complicated it would be, how messy it would be, how fun it would be, and I'm still living that dream with three adult daughters who actually have their own husbands now and we've got four grandkids. So that's kind of my story. Michelle is an incredible person. She was in our office the other day with her husband and I know Ken and I love Ken as well. But Michelle is an author, a speaker. She's the founder of the ABA project and we'll talk about that in a little bit. She has her own podcast show and it's called The Dad Whisperer. I just think that is the coolest name. The Dad Whisperer. Elijah, we need a better name for the, I mean, Homeward with Jim Burns. I mean, who is a something whisperer? Maybe I'm the dad girl whisperer. I don't know. But anyway, Michelle is married to an amazing man, Ken. Ken, Phil, I mentioned Ken and Ken is a nationally known leader, speaker, expert on fathering and on grandfathering and just an all-around great guy as well. I called them when they left our office, the dynamic duo. So you're part of the dynamic duo. Welcome to Homeward with Jim Burns, Michelle. It's great to have you on. Oh, Jim, I'm so glad we got to meet in person and what an honor to be here with you today. Yeah. I now realize that I had seen, we were both speaking at the American Association of Christian Counselors and I actually saw you, but you were popular and everybody was kind of running around with you. So I didn't come up and touch the hem of your garment or something. Oh my goodness. But anyway, so you, interesting enough, I've just read two of your books and a magazine article that just came out. So I know all things Michelle right now. Anyway, I love all of this stuff and we'll talk through it. But you speak and research on girl dads. And so I'm guessing that there must be a story behind that story. What's the background for you to get excited about doing, I mean, really you're the expert on girl dads. Talk about that. You know, I think so often God takes those of us who would disqualify ourselves and say, no, you're the one I'm choosing, which is really all through scripture. Don't we see that? Like, why that person? And that's a bit of my story. So I'm the oldest of four girls said yes to Jesus when I was six, you know, I'm a pastor's daughter, went to Bible college ministry, music and youth ministry. So then my stuff, I'm going to call it that starts to come up, you know, in my 30s and I start dating through my 20s, early 30s, not a great guy. We were in a Christian band together. And you know, all the stuff starts coming up to be healed. That's how my mentor would say it. And I was drawn to a guy that was very verbally, emotionally and mentally abusive to me. So then I start, you know, seeking out a counselor, I start dealing with my stuff. And I have an experience through over and over and over again of really having Jesus step into my stuff. So now then, at the end of that, I decide I need to do this for a living to help other people deal with their stuff. And so I get some letters after my name. And so now I'm in private practice. And, you know, I've been mentoring girls, I would say teenagers and 20 somethings through from the time I was 19. So even in the middle of all my stuff, I love Jesus, I want to walk alongside other women. So now I'm in my private practice, you know, and I'm now 49. So I'm giving you the fast version. It's December of 09. I'm reading in Luke one about how God told Zechariah that is yet to be born son John is going to help turn the hearts, not the heads of fathers to their children. And I literally just heard God whispered to me, Michelle, that's what I want you to do. And I'm like, what back to the disqualifying ourselves. I'm thinking, to be honest with you, I usually was intimidated when fathers would come into counseling sessions, because they would say, okay, what's your, you know, what's your goal? What's your game plan? How are you going to get there? What's wrong? And I'd be like, this doesn't quite work like that. This is a relationship. I'm building trust, you know, I don't have a three point outline and a timeline. And so I'm like, you want me to help turn the hearts of fathers? Oh, my goodness. And two days later, after I got that download, I'm blow drying my hair, Jim. I hear the name the ABBA project, ABBA, meaning daddy and Aramaic, and men love a project. Do I hear an amen? Tell me what to do to fix it. And so the next month, I have nothing, no curriculum. I just have this name from God. I wrote emails to 11 dads who's counseling clients at the time, their daughters, they were my clients in their teens and in their twenties. And I said, Hey, dad, how would you like to join me? These are dads, I don't know. I know their daughters. How would you like to join me once a month for six months to see if there's a change in you, your daughter and your relationship? 10 of the 11 dads said we're in. And I've had men say, you know, over and over, we're not really all that into adding more to our full plate. But because there was a felt need, these men came. My one holdout, by the way, came the second year. But I did this for 10 years, we ended up going a year, that first group had no curriculum, nothing. So I just every month, God downloaded the topic, which is still the format today. That became really the outline for my first book. And so really, that's where my heart, if you want to call it that, my calling to men to girl dads has, that's where it started. And that's, that's what I've been doing ever since 14 years now. That is absolutely incredible. Now, I thought it was really interesting. Like I said, I read two of your books and the magazine articles. And in one of the books right at the beginning, you mentioned, and I thought this was fascinating, especially for me as a girl dad, you said that men, you know, will say, yeah, the relationships, you know, fine with my daughter, it's actually good. When you ask the girls, tears are streaming, and it's not what they had hoped. And then you quoted a research that said three quarters of men say their relationship with their daughters are good. And you said three quarters of women, young women say that their relationship is not as good and that they really miss, they're not connected with their dad. What's the disconnect there? Well, I think part of it is that, you know, men are from Mars, women are from Venus. I mean, at the end of the day, the gender differences do show up in father daughter relationships. And so the only way that a dad can know more of what's really going on in his daughter's mind and heart and life is he has to talk with her. He has to ask questions. So, you know, some of the key words there are close in what you read in my book was that dads would say they're closer than their daughters would say. So the best way for a dad not to project his own thoughts as a guy onto his daughters to ask questions. That's why the second book, Let's Talk, Conversation Starters for Dads of Daughters is I want to equip men to lead. I want dads to have resources right in front of them to pursue their daughter's heart with intention, with consistency and not make assumptions. So dad, you just have to ask your daughter on a zero to 10 scale, how close do you believe we are? I love quantifying things because you can say close is a relative term. Are we close? Yes, no. You don't get much data back, do you? That's not very clear. If you ask it as a zero to 10 question, dad, how close 10 being the closest zero being the bottom, what number would you say represents how close it's a great question. And I'm laughing because I'm going to do I'm going to do this with my kids. I'm actually going to a comedy show at the Hollywood Bowl with my daughter and her husband and my wife tomorrow. And I'm actually trying to figure out how do I pull Heidi aside because I want to ask her that question. And you know, I may not get the answer that I think I'm going to get because I think I've projected all these years. Hey, I've got a great relationship and you know, we are close. And she may go, Well, I wish I had more. So it's going to be interesting. I'll have to report back to you sometime how that goes. I want to hear back. But I'm going to give you two more questions, dad, because you got to have more follow. Okay, you got it. Not one and done. There is okay. What number would you say represents us right now? Because she may say we're an eight. We're really good. Yeah, dad, follow it up with Are we as close as you'd like us to be? And number three, what could I do to be a better dad to you to bump that up a number or a notch or two? Okay, you know, so it's kind of a threefold processing question that I I love giving dads these templates. Because guess what, if your daughter looks at you and goes, that's really lame, dad, that's so stupid. Did you get that from some psychologist somewhere? Right? You know what I want you to roll me under the bus. Dr. Michelle gave me that dumb question. I know. I'll roll you into the bus. And it's funny, I did something with Heidi. She's our youngest. She's the one I was talking about for tomorrow. And it was kind of a knee to knee ask question. She goes, Dad, this is so you said it. This is so lame. This was when she was probably in 10th grade. Right? Yeah. And what was funny was we continued the process of having these little kind of we'd had little cards. It was just a cute little youth ministry type thing. You know what, it was really good. And yet she didn't realize I was actually, you know, I had an agenda in that. She was like, you know, we were kind of having fun. You know, you use the word heart just a moment ago. And, you know, when and this is something that you said, when dad's hearts are turned toward their daughters, she will believe she is worthy of being loved. I want you to unpack that for me. Okay, so let's start with the beginning part of that is a heart turn for fathers is something that God commands. Most people know the last verse of the Old Testament, Malachi 4, 6, where God says that he will turn the hearts. That's where that comes from. A father's to their children. Notice it starts with the father and then it's a reciprocal response. Then it says the children to their fathers, or I will come and strike the lamb with a curse. Well, because my heart is for fathers of daughters, that's my lane. I say, Dad, we can look and see the impact of the curse on women. Who often have a dad void or a dad wound. You can pick out these girls in a lineup that aren't as competent because their dad hasn't poured life into them. And so at the end of the day, if you want to see your daughter internalize your view of her, that she's enough, that she's beautiful, that she's capable and talented and called by God for something specific and unique to her. You have to start with yourself and say, how is my heart doing in connecting with her heart? Which is different than a turned head. So a turned heart means more emotionally dialed in, more sensitive, more intuitive and often more verbal. So those kinds of things matter. You're using words that men sometimes don't do well. Emotion. They're not as in touch with their emotions sometimes as a woman might be. And so what you're saying is dads have to get in touch with their emotions toward their daughter. And you started to say this right after you were talking about this. I read in your book, daughters internalize their dad's view of them. What if somebody doesn't have that connection? What if a daughter doesn't have that connection? Kathy and I were in a small group for years. And I said to Kathy one time quietly, I said, I don't think any of these women have a good dad relationship. I think they have dad wounds that they haven't talked about. And these were adult women whose kids were at the same Christian school that our kids were at and whatnot. But I felt like they had this void and literally some of their dads had already passed away. What do you say to them? I say first of all to those women, get in touch with your own voids and your deficits and your hurts. Because sometimes we think, according to Philippians, forget what lies behind. Let's reach forward to what lies ahead. We cannot forget. It's part of our story. Like when you pick up a book and you start it, you don't start at chapter 30, you start at one, two, three, because it all goes together. That's the foundation. So if you've grown up and you've got woundedness there from your dad, be honest about it. Start there by getting in touch, give a voice to what's there, journal it out, talk it out with a friend or a mentor or a counselor. And after you've given voice to that, part of the releasing, letting go, forgiving process is you have to start by naming where you've been hurt, naming the injury, getting in touch with how it's then impacted you. And then the beautiful part is your story is still being written. One of my favorite verses is Psalm 18, 24 in the Message Bible that says, God rewrote the text of my life when I opened the book of my heart to his eyes. So I would say to those of you daughters that say, I got a really yucky hand that was dealt to me from my father, maybe even grandfather, is go to scripture, make it personal where God says Psalm 139, you are fearfully and wonderfully made. In fact, just last night I was looking at those verses in different translations, and they're awesome about saying, God formed me in the depths of the earth before I was ever put in my mom's womb. That means he's your dad. He's got your name written on the palms of his hands, as Isaiah says. He's got you tattooed on his hand. And the more you know that your heavenly father calls you his own, he's deeply in love with you. He's invested in you. God as a father begins to come in and heal those earthly father wounds. That's incredible. You listeners, you just got preached to in a great way by Michelle. And also I think we're getting some free counseling here as we're listening to this podcast. Great, great input. Like I said, I'm a girl dad. I have three amazing daughters. And you know, I came from a family with boys. So my mom, and I feel sorry for my mom, as I look back with us what we boys did to that poor woman, she was the only woman in the house. Now, you know, I moved into a house, well, I married Kathy, I learned a lot about women in those first few years of marriage. And then, you know, we start making babies, and they're all girls. And so I, you know, had to learn to adjust. I'm pink tutus, I learned how to braid hair. I don't think I was ever very good. And now my girls are adult, you know, women, and they would never let me braid their hair, they'd never let me touch their hair. But even runs to Walgreens to get tampons, you know, in certain hours, I mean, just crazy. But, you know, in my own life, that I became a girl dad, and I actually loved it. In fact, people would say, well, you probably wanted a boy, you know, you wanted a little leaguer, you wanted something. And I went, you know, actually, I love love love my daughters. And a lot of men say, they don't, they didn't, they could connect with a son easy, but they couldn't connect with a daughter, not just on a heart, but just even communication. What advice would you give to the man who says, Hey, I'm struggling, I don't know how to braid hair, and I don't want to braid hair. I'm fine with my son, I'll take him to the games, and I'll let my wife handle the girl stuff. What do you say to that dad? Oh, my goodness, that is an I love just picturing that dad sitting across from me. And I would say, first of all, don't believe the lie that you don't matter. Because at the end of the day, there is research that is confirmed that every area of your daughter's life will be better, she will thrive more by feeling connected to you. So is that a head word or a heart word? What would you say, Jim? Feeling connected? Oh, I think it's a heart word. So it's not a surprise to us that the research confirms what the word of God says that a heart connected relationship between a father and a child, and the safe, specifically a daughter, and her dad matters. The research says your daughter will get better grades in school by feeling connected to you more likely to finish high school and attend college, greater self esteem, greater confidence, less depression, less anxiety, better athletic performance, more likely to hold steady employment, less body dissatisfaction, healthier weight. Dads are gonna love this next one. She will delay her sexual debut. Do I hear a woo woo? Come on from a feeling of connection to you, decreases in teen pregnancy, more pro-social empathy. Do we need more of that? That's all because of dad. So first of all, dad, don't believe the lie that you are less important in your daughter's life than to your son, because that isn't true biblically. It's not true in the research. Number two, dad, back to this idea of the more your daughter knows, not just what you think, but what you think of her, where you are giving her messages that she has value and worth. That's how she will carry herself out in the world. And another thing I love to say to dads, if you want your daughter to use her voice out in the world, you have to let her use it at home, which means she's going to develop muscles by pushing back on you, disagreeing, saying no. So you don't just want a little robot that you're going to send out in the world, wind up and let her go. Dad, in relationship with you, when you don't like what she's telling you, get underneath it. Tell me what about that is important to you. Tell me where you came up with that decision. Try to let her use her voice with you because she will stand out in the world and be a voice to make a difference. The more she practices with you, really internalizing your view of her and using her voice at home. That is so good. Listen, you've given us great scripture, so I'm calling you a preacher. You've given us great counsel. And that was coaching. And guys need coaching. That's great, great insight. I'm thinking of the loads of people right now who are listening to this saying, wow, I want to pass this on to somebody else just because that is so good. We're going to take a break, quick break. We'll be right back. We're talking with Michelle Watson Canfield, and we're talking about why girl dads matter. But wow, this is amazing stuff. And she's the author of Let's Talk, conversation starters for dads and daughters. I read it last night, and I loved it. I'm going to steal from all kinds of things from my conversation with my own daughters, but even with real young daughters, you could have some of these. As well as dad, here is what I really need from you, A Guide to a Daughter's Heart. And again, great book, great insight. Dads, put some time and energy into this. And again, if you want to know more about Michelle's amazing work, all of the ways to hear about her is in our show notes. And if you are a dad and you know a girl dad, then I highly recommend all things with Michelle. I mean, really, as you can tell, incredible stuff. When we come back, I want to talk about how to keep a daughter from looking for love in all the wrong places, as well as how conversations can change literally the trajectory of your daughter's life and of your life too. So we'll be right back. Don't go away. More to come. Welcome back. Michelle Watson-Canfield is with us. We're talking about why girl dads matter. You know, Michelle, I was talking with a dad this weekend. Kathy and I were doing a marriage conference in Northern California at Mount Hermon. It's a great conference center. And what was interesting about this dad was he said easy for him. He has two daughters and one son, and they're now young adults. The young son, he said pretty easy. He went through college. He graduated, got married kind of young, is in youth ministry, didn't get much trouble. The girls, this is where his heart was breaking as he was talking to me, because he said the girls, they went to the same church, they went to the same youth group, they were active in youth group. And as they got older, they strayed. And what was interesting is he used the word they were looking for love in all the wrong places. And he said, and I was in my mind, he's one of those dads maybe, but he said, you know, I think I did a good job with them. I mean, I was there, I was present. But he said, so they both strayed from faith, they both, you know, strayed from the values that we taught them. And he was just brokenhearted about it. He was blaming himself. What do you say to that dad? You know, the consistent theme you're going to hear in everything I write, say, and really believe is that dad, it comes down to listening more than you talk. You have two ears for a purpose, one mouth, right? For a reason. Listen twice as much as you talk. And you're, it's never too late for you to open up this conversation with your daughters. I understand this is heartbreaking. In fact, God is a father, you're sharing with him in that heartbreak. And yet, because you're the one to begin the initiation of the talk, dad, sit down one-on-one with your daughter. In fact, I've got questions on different themes, 60 themes of topics. If you don't know what to say, you can open the book. Because I've got themes that are about these kind of topics that you can say to her, tell me, even be willing to have her say things that you did that hurt her or shaped her. Asking her questions of, tell me what you don't like about the church, or what you don't like about what you were taught, or don't like. The more you listen to what she says without defensiveness, you're modeling God as a father. In fact, one of my favorite verses in the Bible is Luke 15-20, where it's the prodigal son story. When you have a daughter or a son who's away from the Lord, Jesus, this is all red letters saying, this is what my dad is like. Five things that you can do as a proactive dad. It says the dad, first of all, was standing here looking, okay? Number two, filled with compassion. So the dad, you're turned toward your daughter who's away. You are filled with compassion that you hurt over the way she's been hurt, because most likely there's things she's never told you. These are the things I hear, even I have this week in my counseling office, a 21-year-old daughter telling me stories of back when dad was a pastor that happened in the church. Parents don't always know of things that have negatively shaped them and hurt them. Number three, standing there looking toward, filled with compassion. Number three, you run toward them. Then number three, embrace. Number five, kiss. You're that close that you're willing to kiss their wounds, hold their hurts without preaching at them. She's probably had enough to last her lifetime. Become an expert at listening to her heart hurts. That's how your daughter will heal and see that you're a safe witness to her pain. In fact, I once had a friend of mine say that a key question for a dad to ask is, tell me how I hurt you when ... It could be when I divorced your mom, when I took you to that church, the way I disciplined you when you were little, the boundaries I set. When you come with a heart like that, that's humble, open, vulnerable, and asking her more questions than anything you ever say. You will watch your daughter's heart turn back toward you, and I believe ultimately back toward God as her heavenly father. It's a great answer and a great comment. Sometimes dads tell me with their daughters, and they'll say this with their sons too, but they'll say, you know what, I'm trying to connect, but there's resistance. What do you say to the dad who says, hey, I'm trying. I'm asking the right questions. I've got your book. I'm saying the questions, Mike, and my daughters are saying, not now, dad. What do you say? That's more often than not. Even when I just told you about a daughter this week, she's not ready to talk with her dad yet. I get that a lot. We call that a reluctant daughter is, again, a model from God. What does God do as a father? Does he go, you're going to talk to me whether you like it or not? My book is called My Word. I got lots of things to say, and he doesn't clobber us. He's there waiting, pursuing open-hearted. I say, dad, you have to sometimes get a little more creative. It may be zipping it if your daughter doesn't want to have that conversation, and she'll feel more safe if she doesn't say, my dad's going to corner me because he has a lecture for me. It's waiting, pacing with her. It's being willing to do other things that are her favorite things to do where you don't then clobber her with the gospel, so to speak. You come with your presence without letting her know you're the hound to hound her. It's doing what she wants to do in her pace and her time. Sometimes if your daughter's really closed the door, which I've had a lot of dads in that place that have been in the ABBA project, it's writing notes. Sometimes it's finding another portal to get through. It might be texting to validate. How can I pray for you? It might not even bring enough prayer, but hey, what are you up to this week? I just want to know. Another thing I love to tell dads is the mirrors for daughters for women are brutal. We look in the mirror and see every negative message that you could imagine when we look in the mirror. You're fat, you're ugly, you're this, you're that. So I say, dad, if your daughter is still at home, find creative ways. Get a dry erase marker, a pack of sticky notes, and write a message today on your daughter's mirror. Just I'm proud of you. I believe in you. I'm so glad to be your dad. Like begin, you know, the love bank is kind of a five to one ratio, five deposits to one withdrawal. Find more ways to breathe life into her with affirming messages. And I had a dad once say, you know, one of my oldest daughters in college, and I traveled for work. So he goes, I got an away game too. He pulled out from his back pocket, the dry erase marker I had just given out at a conference, a men's conference. And he said, I know right on the mirror in the hotel, take a screenshot and send it to her in real time. So like dad, you're you're helping other dads, you know, come up with ways to reach your daughter. You know, it's it's interesting, as I mentioned last night is when I read your book, Let's Talk, you know, conversation starters for dads and daughters. Really, it's not what they say. It's the question they ask so that they can listen. You talk about listening, and it's a language of love. So what you're really trying to do is interact, but stay away from preaching, stay away from lecturing, and actually just listen to the answers. You're not always going to get the answer you want. But that's what I hear you saying that that you're leaning into listening, even though your book is called Conversations, you're really trying to just start something where you can hear from your daughter more than probably you talk. You know, I I'm so glad you highlighted that because this there's actually an art to listening well. None of us just right in the eight we are great at that. So what I have found, could I give could I give dads listening? In fact, this is applicable to women to a really practical way. It's something I made up years ago. I don't even know how I got the download from God for this. But there's actually an art to asking good questions. How about if I teach dads how to listen better, because they're going to have a skill set in their pocket, I'll call it their father in toolbox, that will actually help them be more strategic and successful in how they ask questions. What do you think? You want to hear it? Yep, I want to hear it. Let's go for it. Okay, here you go. Do you all remember back in school that we learned who, what, when, where, why, how everybody learned that somewhere? I don't even know what that's called back in school. I see dad, the least effective question is why? Why did you do that? What? It's a looping question. I don't know. You don't really get too far. So use that one least. But you can ask the same who, what, when, where, how question by listening to what your daughter just said. Listen for the key word in her sentence. Or if she talks for a long time and you go, Oh my goodness, I don't even know where to start. Last word she said or last couple of words. So for example, you pick up your daughter from school. She's seventh grade. You go, Hey, honey, how was school today? And what does she say? One word. Fine. And you go, great. You go home and your wife goes, how was her day? You go, it was fine. That is a non answer answer on Venus. That's our throw away. Men say, if you wanted to tell me more, you would have told me more. We say, Oh no, no, no, no. To us, if you want to know more, you would have asked more. Oh my goodness. We miss each other. So dad, you don't have to work as hard. Sometimes you're like, what do I ask next? What was the key word? She only gave you one. What about your day was fine? Well, actually choir was like the best part of the day. Tell me about choir. You could even kind of do a variation on the theme. Tell me more, but you could say what happened in choir? We know that guy that I really like his name is Austin. Like today looked at me and everybody, I was dying because everybody was looking at me and I was so embarrassed and my face turned red. And you're like, Oh my goodness, I don't even know what to say. That was so many words. And so you could go, what was the key word? What we say, Jim, what was the key word in that sentence? You tell me maybe the guy's name. Yeah. Everybody are embarrassed. What was embarrassing? Good words. Yeah. How did he, how, how, how did it come about that you were embarrassed? What happened when you were embarrassed? But she said, let's say she said a guy's name, always a keyword in a sentence. Say she goes, you know, that guy, Austin, I like who's Austin. What's Austin like? What do your friends say about Austin? What did Austin do? Your daughter will one know you listened and heard her to you didn't have to cope. So like, so how was lunch today? And you go off on a tangent. You're just listening. You ask her a who, what, when, where, how question about what she just said. Number three, we as girls figure things out by talking. So what a better way to bond than listening and asking a follow-up question. So what do you think? You think that's like practical enough for dads to be able to put it into action? No, I mean, it's so good. You know, I said on the podcast before that one of my mentors, his name is Neil Clark Warren said, communication is a learned trait. And what you're doing is you're teaching us how to communicate. We don't know how to do that. That's not, that doesn't come natural. And yet the little process that you just took us through could really change the way we communicate with our daughters and frankly, our sons and our spouses and, you know, people at work and everything else, really, really good. Listen, I can't believe that our time is up, but it has gone by so fast. I could listen to you all day and get inside. Michelle, thank you so much for being on the podcast. So, so much. Such a joy to join you. Thank you so much. Now, again, everything, everything we've talked about, but also all of the ways to get the books to learn more about Michelle is on our podcast sheet. And also there's two photos and I think Mike Segovia, our producer can make this happen, two photos of my daughters, one when they're little in little hula skirts, and then also one when they're adults at I think one of the girls' weddings. So, you know, take a look at the, the beauties. They look like their mom, thank God, not like, like me. Anyway, wonderful conversation today. Wonderful, wonderful. And before I go, let me just simply give you three quick points. This is coming from a dad who loves his daughters like crazy, who's not done it perfect. But here's just some thoughts, random thoughts, and I think they kind of come from what Michelle, this is kind of on top of what she's been saying and coincides perfectly. First of all, tell your girls that you love them and that you're proud of them as often as you can. Okay. And if you're in the home, then say it all the time, they'll roll their eyes mush, mush, but then they'll take it differently. Each girl will take it differently, but tell them that they need to hear that from you. You know, the last words that my mom said to me, obviously not, she's not a, she was a boy mom, but same thing goes. She said, Jimmy, I love you and I'm proud of you. I mean, she had stuff in her nose from, you know, tubes and she was on, she was on heavy medication, but she looked at me and then I went away and I spoke and I came back and she had passed away when I was speaking in Colorado. And you know what, I live with that still, that blessing. So dads, bless your daughters, bless your sons too, but bless your daughters by saying, I love you and I'm proud of you. Heidi didn't like me to say that she's my youngest. And so she just kind of, you know, would say dad. So I would just go Heidi, mush, mush. But I told her that mush, mush meant, you know, I love you and I'm proud of you. Becca was a little easier on that and Christie was easier on that. But you know, find a way to express your love. Then secondly is be a role model of love and commitment. If you're married to your wife, okay. If you're not married, then still be a role model of living a life of integrity with love and commitment. I think one of the most important things I can do is show my daughters that I love Kathy. And so, you know, non-negotiable date nights, you know, them seeing how a man should treat his wife is key dads. And, you know, we have to buck that up a little bit because I think sometimes, especially during the years when the kids are maybe teens or whatever, or even when they're younger, but we put all of our energy into the kids and we have a kid focused marriage, frankly, and that's not going to help. So I think that's, you know, what you do. And then thirdly is be your daughter's greatest cheerleader. Honestly, you can do this, okay. You know, they don't need as much lecture as you probably want to give them lecture, but her heart will be touched by your affirmation and your attention and even your affection. And so by giving them that affection, you know, I see a lot of kids, I was a youth pastor at one time, and I would see kids who were sexually promiscuous. They craved false affection because they weren't getting the kind of affection from their dads. And so be that affectionate, affirming, you know, person who is their greatest cheerleader. There's a sign up in my office that says every child needs at least one adult who is irrationally positive about them. And I think dads can be irrationally positive about their daughters. I understand you got to do discipline. There's certain things you got to talk about. But be that person who overwhelmingly is irrationally positive about your daughter. I think it will change their life forever. So anyway, thanks for listening. Thanks for watching. I want to thank Michelle for being on this podcast. I also want to thank Mike Segovia, our expert pickleball player, as well as producer and Elijah Hamilton, who has a daughter coming in like one, two, three, just a couple of months here. And so he's listening in as a dad-to-be of a daughter. And he's here in the studio. And then those three daughters of mine, Christy, Rebecca, and Heidi. What a privilege to be their dad. Oh gosh, I just got kind of teary-eyed. But the deep joy that I found in life, what is wrong with me? Those of you on the YouTube channel can kind of see my eyes turning red. But to be their dad. And you know, Abba in Aramaic does mean daddy. And my girls kind of called me daddy for a while, and sometimes they slip. But you know what? Be their daddy. And just like our God is a loving father, and little kids today would call their dads, in that language, Abba, and be that kind of dad, whether you have older kids or whether you have younger kids. So again, thanks for listening to Homeward. Thanks for our YouTube watchers. I'm Jim Burns, and you've been listening to Homeward with Jim Burns, and we'll see you next time. Bye.