 Like five points in the sky we're in paddock. Oh yeah! Let's all stand together. We sing to our King who fights our battles for us. He's victorious. He's the Lord of Lords. Let's worship Him today. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. We sing together. When all I see is the battle You see my victory When all I see is the bound You see about to move As I walk through the shadow, your love surrounds me. Yeah. There's nothing to fear now, for I am safe with you. So when I'm high, I'll ride on my knees, with my head lifted high. Oh, God, the battle belongs to you. And every fear I lay at your feet, I'll sing through the night. Oh, God, the battle belongs to you. And if you were for me, who could be against me? For Jesus, there's nothing impossible for you. When all I see are the ashes, you see the beauty. Yes, you do. When all I see is a cross, God, you see the empty door. Oh, so I'll sing through the night. So when I'm high, I'll ride on my knees, with my head lifted high. Oh, God, the battle belongs to you. And every fear I lay at your feet, I'll sing through the night. Oh, God, the battle belongs to you. And, oh, mighty fortress, you go before us. Nothing can stand against the power of our God. You shine in the shadow. You win every battle. Nothing can stand against the power of our God. Oh, almighty fortress, you go before us. Nothing can stand against the power of our God. You shine in the shadow. You win every battle. Nothing can stand against the power of our God. Oh, almighty fortress, you go before us. Nothing can stand against the power of our God. You shine in the shadow. You win every battle. Nothing can stand against the power of our God. So when I'm high, I'll ride on my knees, with my head lifted high. Oh, God, the battle belongs to you. Oh, God, the battle belongs to you. And every fear I lay at your feet, I'll sing through the night. Oh, God, the battle belongs to you. Oh, God, the battle belongs to you. Oh, you are holy, yes. Oh, we bring you peace. A thousand generations falling down in worship. Oh, you are holy, yes. Oh, we bring you peace. Oh, you are holy, yes. Oh, we bring you peace. Falling down in worship. Sing the song of ages through the night. It's all gone before us. It's all we'll believe. We'll sing the song of ages through the night. Your name, your name is the highest. Your name is the greatest. Your name, Santa, both and all. All grows into millions. All powers and positions. Your name, Santa, both and all. And the angels cry, Holy, our creation cries. Holy, you are lifted high. Holy, holy forever. And if you've been forgiven, And if you've buried tears, Sing the song forever through the night. And if you walk in freedom, And if you bear His name, Sing the song forever through the night. Sing the song forever as He did, And the angels cry, Holy, our creation cries. Holy, you are lifted high. Holy, holy forever. Holy, holy forever. Hear people sing, Holy, to the King of Kings. Holy, you will always be. Holy, holy forever. Your name, your name is the highest. Your name is the greatest. Your name, Santa, both and all. All grows into millions. All powers and positions. Your name, Santa, both and all. Your name is the highest. Your name is the greatest. Your name stands above them all. All grows into millions. All powers and positions. Your name stands above them all. And the angels cry, And the angels cry, Holy, our creation cries. Holy, you are lifted high. Holy, holy forever. Hear your people sing, Hear your people sing, Holy, to the King of Kings. Holy, you will always be. Holy, holy forever. Holy, holy forever. You will always be. Holy, holy forever. You are holy, yes. So holy. Amen. Well, we can sing that song with confidence. Knowing that God is holy, holy forever, that His name will last forever, that He is set apart. The description in the book of Revelation is that the angels bow down and worship Him and they say, holy, holy, holy. Yet He's a God that cares about us. That's involved in our lives, that knows the individual aspects of what we're going through and wants to help us grow and transform us into the person that He wants us to be. We got to celebrate this last night as we had our rooted graduates here as they ended their 10-week experience and celebrated them. And we saw the transformation. We heard stories and story after story of people that said, I signed up for this and I was hoping for this. And God did this. The individual transformation that takes place in each life is because of a God that is holy. It's also because of a people that have said, we're going to be generous in our response to what God is doing and we're going to jump in in any way that we feel led. And it's your generosity and your worship and your offering that you have brought that allows things like Rooted to take place. And for those of you that are in life groups, you know that Rooted is the first 10 weeks of a life group and you get connected to your church and the people around you and God and learn more about yourself. We get to see that transformation take place because of the generosity here at Harbor Point. And if you want to jump in and participate in that, there's ways on the screens behind me that you can jump in and play a part in that generosity. But I want you to see in just a minute on the screens behind me you're going to watch Cardboard Testimonies. And if you know about Rooted, Cardboard Testimony is a chance to kind of look back on where we were 10 weeks ago, what we were as that person and what we were experiencing going through and how we've been transformed and changed by God, a holy God that cares about us today. So you're going to see that in the next song in just a little bit. Would you pray with me as we continue in our service? Father, we thank you. We thank you, God, that you are holy. We sing, we raise our hands, we proclaim that truth through song today knowing that you are holy and you care about us. You want to transform our lives because you have a picture of who we can be. And Lord, you're engaged and in our lives. And we praise you for that. Father, we respond in our offering now as a worship to you. And God, we give it to you because we know that you can take it and use it to continue to transform more and more lives. We thank you for who you are. We ask that you be with us now and shape us and form us as we continue in our service and worship today. It's in your son's name we pray. Amen. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. I'm going to sing a little bit of the Lord's Prayer. Look where I'm standing now. You carried the cross for me. Now I am a child of the King. Oh, look where I'm standing now. Look where I'm standing now. Oh, I stand on a chain breaking, a miracle making, a powerful name of Jesus. On the body raised, a prodigal saving, a powerful name of Jesus. Yeah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Jesus, my Savior, rescue me. Hallelujah! Praise! Hallelujah! Praise! Hallelujah! Jesus, my Savior, rescue me. Hallelujah! Praise! I stand on a chain breaking, a miracle making, a powerful name of Jesus. On the body raised, a prodigal saving, a powerful name of Jesus. I stand on a chain breaking, a miracle making, a powerful name of Jesus. On the body raised, a prodigal saving, a powerful name of Jesus. Oh, hallelujah! I pray! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! I am free! Hallelujah! Jesus, my Savior, rescue me. Hallelujah! Praise! Hallelujah! I'm free! Hallelujah! Jesus, my Savior, rescue me. Hallelujah! I'm free! Hallelujah! Oh, hallelujah! Give him praise! Oh, come on, if you are free, if you've been set free, lift up a shout of praise unto Jesus this morning! Amen! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! So good, so good to worship together. Welcome to Harbor Point. There are so many dads throughout the room. Happy Father's Day to you all. Beautiful people all throughout the room. Why don't you turn to your neighbor, give somebody a high five. You can grab a seat. Oh, wow, you're taking this serious. I'm serious. The whole thing is about being serious. Apparently you're not ready to be serious. That may lower this so you can hear my joke appropriately. I can hear it. Okay. All right, I've got to put mine down a little bit. Is that your first joke? That was it. I don't get it. Okay. I've got to get in the zone. Like I said, I'm not at a disadvantage, I laugh at my own jokes, but I'm competitive, so the two things are going head to head here. Give me your worst. Look at me. I'm right here. I am right here and you're right here and we're crossing our eyes. We're crossing our eyes. Elevating the humor level to the next. When I cross my eyes so I can't remember my joke. Okay, I remember now. After you read it, you remembered it. Did I get a point there? Yeah. What did one eye say to the other eye? You got it. Did I get a point there? Yeah. What did one eye say to the other eye? I don't know. There's something between us that smells. Does a quiver count? He's quivering. You're quivering. Oh, that's a laugh? Yeah. Already? It's a wash. Let's see here. I'm reading a horror story in Braille. Something bad is going to happen. I can feel it. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you for moving that. Now I can see your face. What do you call a paper airplane? I can't fly. I do not know. Ready? Stationary. Did you have a bad morning? What's going on? What's going on? The morning would be great if I heard some humor around here, but apparently that's not what we're doing. I went to buy some camouflage pants either day. Okay. I couldn't find any. How? You're terrible. Stop throwing stuff at me. I asked the librarian if the library had any books on paranoia. She leaned in and whispered, They're right behind you. That's two points for you that I lost on my own joke. Yeah. This is easy. At this point, we're doing it. You can't resist this right here. If you feel like someone is watching you, you're not alone. You're not alone. Dude, that was totally for you. What did Mario say to Princess Peach when he dumped her? Mario. It's not you. It's a me, Mario. No, come on. I love you so many more. What's the difference between curtains and toilet paper? I don't know. So it was you. That's it. I'm happy to go out on that one. Thank you. Alright. Yeah. Top shelf humor for you guys that are new with us every week. We do that kind of stuff. We just set the bar. I know it's incredible. Great to be with you guys. Happy Father's Day. It is Father's Day in case you didn't know. Happy Father's Day. I don't want to compare days for parents here. If we did that on Mother's Day, it would have been like a wave. I just want to say one more time. Happy Father's Day. Yeah, right. Exactly. This is my 20th Father's Day, which is really bizarre to think about. You're just like, wow, I didn't know he was that old. Now you know. But yeah, my 20th Father's Day. In all seriousness, I just want to tell you, and this is really, really crucial. You guys, dads matter. The church and the world needs fathers and grandfathers. It needs fathers and father figures. So it matters. If you're wondering if you're doing a great job, you'll probably never know if you're doing a great job. But let me just say if you're showing up, that's half of it. The rest of it you can figure out. Just showing up is half of it. And so I'm grateful for you guys. Keep being dads and grandfathers and father figures to so many people. We need you guys. All right? Cool. Good? Yeah. All right. If you're new with us, my name is Jeff. I'm one of the pastors here. I want to tell you, if you're new, again, I know there's a lot of places you could be. There's like brunch plans you had. There was all kinds of stuff you were planning on doing today. I was in church and it was like, I gotta go, I guess. Or something like that. Or maybe you were coerced or tricked or however bribed you wound up here. I want to let you know that my favorite thing about our church is the people you're sitting around. There's a lot of great stuff that happens on this stage, but the best stuff that happens in our church is always with the people that you're sitting around. And people will tell me over and over again their favorite thing is the people they met. They'll say, I'm like, did you not? There's something else going on on the stage here. Yeah, yeah, that was fine. But the people I met, they were great. They just seemed like a place where I could come and show up and kind of be myself and all that sort of stuff. And I'm like, I'm going to go. I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. And I'm like, I'm going to go. Don't let that be a reason why you can't be generous somewhere else. And to the degree that it's sacrificially, joyfully generous somewhere else. Find somewhere else that's making an eternal difference in the world. And give sacrificially to it. Because there are some things that God can only do when we're with our generosity, with our sacrificial generosity. You want to join the generosity journey here? Great. If you don't, don't let that be a reason to not be generous. Period. Find a way to be generous. Everybody cool? Does that make sense? All right. We on board with that? Okay, cool. Yeah. We're a little more tepid on that. Not quite as excited about that. Okay, that's right. I want to let you guys know, by the way, you're looking at our incredible horse trough right here behind us. It is, we're going to do some baptisms a little bit later. I'm going to explain what that is. If you're wondering about that, some of you came here like, I'm not sure what about baptism is. That's a weird thing these Christian people do. You're going to see it. And some of you might be like, I should do that. By the way, it's not like an oil change you have to do every 3000 miles. I'm like, well, I haven't done it in a while. I guess I should do it again. You only need to do it once, you know, but whatever. But anyway, let me just see. The water is nice and tepid. And no one will burn themselves and it's not cold. Okay, a lot to get through. Here we go. I have to zoom through this message. We're in the middle of a series. Let's start right here. I'm going to, remember everybody be really quiet. I want you to hear something. When you know the name of this song, if you know it, just raise your hand. Don't shout it, but just name it. If you know the name of it, okay? It's going to be going on for a little while. Listen. You get credit. I'll call on you in a second. Listen to this melody. Jump to the next one. This song is 15 minutes long. I'm only going to show you like little chunks of it. But notice how it builds. Stay with it. Once you get the melody, you can hum it. Go to the next one. Yep. There you go. Jump to the next. We're now in minute nine of this song. Last one. All right, that's good. Okay. Now, the song, like I said, is 15 minutes long. It's going to be going on for a little while. Listen to this melody. Jump to the next one. Jump to the next. The song, like I said, is 15 minutes long. And that's all it does. The song just builds from that little phrase. And it just builds the whole time. All the way through for 15 minutes. Back here. You raise your hand. Do you know what that song is? Bolero by Ravel. Maurice Ravel. Yep. Now, here. Yeah. Let's close in prayer. That's it. Let's get some baptisms going. Now, that song, again, like, some of you, how many of you guys heard that song? Maybe you didn't know what it was. Yeah, that song. Everybody's heard that song. It's one of the most famous classical pieces, you know, of recent past. I mean, it's really famous. But the whole song, again, is just this single phrase over and over again. The whole work adds, builds, adds, builds, until it gets to the whole orchestra doing the same thing over and over again. In other words, to understand that song, all you would need to do is just understand that song. All you would need is that one phrase and to see it built over and over and over again. We'll come back to that in a minute. Three weeks ago, we started a series, and we just sort of said, look, let's reimagine the Bible a little bit, which is such a strange piece of ancient literature written over, you know, 1,500 years, 40 or so different authors in different places and settings and times. And it's hard for us to read the Bible because we're not reading it as the original audience member. We're 21st century, Western kind of world people looking back at this thing. We're not the original audience. And the, like, one of the sort of Bible scholar, a guy named John Walton says, look, the Bible is for us, 100% Bible is for us. But it's not to us. The Bible was, was definitely written for us, but it's not written to us. And so that makes it a little bit of a challenge. But we know Christians regard, they have high regard for the Bible, they'll say things like this, about this is the Bible saying, this is what people believe about the Bible, it's in the Bible. Hebrews 412. For the word of God is alive and active, sharper than any double-edged sword, it penetrates even to the dividing soul and the spirit, joints and marrow, it judges the thoughts and attitudes of the heart. Now, if people believe, Hebrews 412 just says, if people believe that it actually did all this stuff, that's a pretty high, that's a pretty high level of importance for some words. That they actually can do all of these things. So Christians are known for people who have a high regard for the Bible. But some of you might be like, look, the Bible is maybe sort of wonderful, but it just sort of feels like a collection of mythological stories and I don't really know about that. Others of you might say, well, the Bible might be valuable, but it just, I mean, come on, let's get it with the times here. It's for different people. You just said, Jeff, it's not to us, it's written to people a long time ago. Maybe it needs a little updating, a little freshening up. For a lot of people, that's sort of their belief. Other people might say, look, and this might be a larger portion of us. People are like, look, the Bible is really good, but it's so unapproachable. It's just so very much unapproachable. And as we think about it, the Bible, as we've been saying, maybe one of the ways we got to reimagine or rethink about the Bible is less as a book and more as a bookstore or maybe perhaps like a library with different sections. Because if we were to look at it, here are the different sections of the Bible. All of them have different kinds of writing styles. Each one of them requires its own unique way of looking at it. You couldn't read the writings on narrative the same way you'd read the writings on prophecy or gospels or etc. Things like that. So once again, between law and narrative and prayer and wisdom and prophecy and gospels and letters and apocalyptic writing, they're all different styles of writing. And what we've been saying throughout the series is this. Each section of the Bible requires its own unique approach to understand it as best as possible. In fact, so much confusion about the Bible often comes with the fact that people have complicated it by coming to a particular section with the wrong approach. And all we're trying to do in this particular series is to kind of say, let's just try to make sure our approach is lined up with the thing that we're reading. Now, one section of the Bible, I think is probably the toughest section of all of the Bible writing to read. It is complicated largely because a lot of it is written in poetic language. It references things that we have no idea what they're talking about because again, for us but not to us. But as we look at it, I just want to show you when we get to this kind of reading, what you're going to see over and over again is a phrase. Over and over and over again like Polaroid that starts small and begins to build and build and build. And I'll show you what that is in a moment. But when you read this most confusing kind of writing, which is called prophetic writing in the Bible, when you read it, it is so helpful to understand that single phrase. Now most people, so by the way, to just give you a sense, in the Bible there are 16 books of the Bible that are written that would fall into this category, prophetic writing. Four major prophets and 12 minor prophets. They're not because they're minor because they're like less important. It just usually has to do with their length, mostly. But anyway, here's a list of them. The ones that are in the yellow, the yellow orange color, that's all the major prophets. So Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Ezekiel. Daniel is the other one that has an asterisk there because some people put that book in particular in another category. But that's, you know, thank you for kneeling down by the way. That was really helpful. No one saw you. Yeah. Yeah, that was great. Anyway, I know you're trying not to have anybody draw attention to that. It's okay. Anyways, there we go. The other 12 of those are simply referred to sometimes as just the 12. You'll see it actually referred to as the 12. These are the minor prophets. Now, for most people when you talk about prophetic writing, most people have the impression, and we talk about prophecy, if you looked it up like a definition of prophecy or prophetic writing, inevitably the first definition you would find would be talking about or predicting events in the future that happen at some point, you know, at some point in the future. But here's what's so interesting. When it comes to the prophetic writing in the Bible, only one percent of the predictions that are in the Bible have yet to occur. There are lots of people that you might know or come across. You might even be a person who really loves the idea of future prediction in the Bible, and there's definitely some of that, but it's really an overwhelming minority of the amount of things that are in the Bible about future prediction. Only one percent of stuff hasn't happened yet. Here's some really conservative Bible scholars on the subject. These guys wrote a book called How to Read the Bible for All It's Worth. Really good book. It's not thrilling, not a page-turner, not great summer pool reading, but it is in fact really helpful. But anyway, it often happens that many Christians refer to the prophetic books only for their predictions about the coming of Jesus. Now, what people would read the Bible, you know, sort of prophecy books for is they would like try to read it only as if it's anticipating Jesus, who doesn't show up in his ministry for about, depending on which prophet you're reading, between 400 and 700 years. So he's saying, these are what these guys are saying, it happens that many Christians refer to the prophetic books only for predictions about the coming of Jesus, as though the prediction of events far distant from their own day was the main concern of these prophets. In fact, using the prophets in this way is highly selective. Consider the following statistics. Less than 2% of Old Testament prophecy. Old Testament is the part of the Bible that concerns God and his relationship with his own people before the ministry of Jesus, life and ministry of Jesus and the early church. That's the New Testament. Old Testament is about God and his relationship with his people before the ministry and life of Jesus. Now, less than 2% of Old Testament prophecy is messianic. That is to say, referring to a messiah that's supposed to come. Less than 1% concerns events yet to come in our time. The prophets then did indeed announce the future, but it was usually the immediate future of Israel, which is the northern kingdom of Israel, Judah, which is the southern kingdom, and other nations surrounding them that they announced rather than our future. Meaning there's so many people have an obsession with only about 1% of the content of the writing. Which means that when it comes to prophetic writing, it's referring to something else altogether. In fact, something that would be way more helpful to look at it when you are, if you ever come across some of this writing in the Bible, is to look at it a little bit differently. Now to say it simply, prophetic writing is about God's word spoken through God's spokesperson to God's people. That's the simplest way to talk about what prophetic writing is. A prophet is simply a person who's been appointed by God to speak his words to his people, and it's like I said only rarely is it about future stuff. Like that hasn't happened. It's very rare. When it comes to the actual tone of this writing, when we're talking about the prophetic writing tone, it's highly confrontational. It is unbelievably confrontational. Because God's people were intended to have a relationship with God that looks like wedding vows. We talked about this in the beginning of the series about what it means, what's called the covenant. And there's covenant, what are called stipulations or vows, and they're saying we're going to be, it's going to be you and us, God. We're going to be together. And they set up these terms and they're going to have this agreement. And the prophets come around and they go, hey, wait a second. You guys are, you guys are supposed to keep up your end of the bargain and sort of be a part of this relationship in the way that you intended. So it's always confrontational. They're like, look, you stopped caring for the poor, the orphan and the widow, which is like the trifecta of the most marginalized people. You aren't caring for the poor, the orphan and the widow anymore. Or you've made some other idols and you're worshiping them, or you're practicing some kind of permission, you know, immorality, whatever it might be for yourselves. And so the prophets words are not welcome words. People aren't like, yay, a prophet's here. They're always being confronted. In fact, here's an example of some people having a conversation in the Bible about prophets and how they feel about them. Check this out. This is in 1 Kings 22 verse 7. Jehoshaphat asked, is there no longer a prophet of the Lord here whom we can inquire of? The king of Israel answered Jehoshaphat, oh, there is still one prophet through whom we can inquire of the Lord, but I hate him because he never prophesized anything good about me, but always bad. I don't want to ask that guy. He always says things I don't want to hear. This is over and over again. To be a prophet is to be a person who's generally hated because all that person does is show up and say, you guys aren't getting it right over and over again. Christy Anya Buile in her book, literally says it like this. I love this. God used prophets to speak the cold hard truth to God's cold hard people. Over and over again, you see this and what it is, the content of the prophetic messages is always what people needed to hear, but what they rarely wanted to hear. It's what people needed to hear, but what they rarely wanted to hear. Now when we talk about the prophets, it's important to understand, we talked about this in the second week of the series, about the idea of this last week, about how they all the whole Bible fits into a giant narrative framework. And I want to show you what that is. Once again, if you weren't here with us here, it is really quickly. First, God is the good creator and sustainer of all things. Second, God's people, God and people form an unlikely and unequal partnership with him. Third, people break the partnership with God. At some point, they're like, we're kind of tired of this. Four, life apart from God results in exile, means they get deported out of their own homes, or invasion, people come in and take them out like they take them over. Five, by the way, people regret their decision. And then six, God restores the partnership. You can see this cover to cover in the Bible. If you get this, if you get this sort of framework, you understand the Bible a lot. They see you don't need to kneel down. They see you don't need to kneel down. Just walk right out. That's there you go. Just there you go. I don't know. So now what I said was helpful for us before is this, and I meant it, and it is a little bit goofy, but if you think about the basic plot line as a romantic comedy, it really helps you to understand, which I know a lot of you are going to be watching romantic comedy on Father's Day. I just know it's a typical tradition in a lot of people's homes. No, just kidding. Now, when you talk about the prophets, when they show up, it's the same part in a movie, in a romantic comedy when the person, the protagonist breaks up with whoever they're with. He breaks up with her, she breaks up with him, they go back to their old life. Inevitably what you have is another person will say, are you crazy? That's the best thing that ever happened to you. Why? It's a secondary character, tertiary character is like, you should not have broken up with that person. You've never been better in your whole life. I can't believe you broke up with that person. You've got to get back with them. That's what the prophets say in these chunks of that story. The people are like, I'm done with this partnership. And they end up in sort of exile or invasion. And then people regret their decision. The prophets are like, no, no, no, wait, come back, come back, come back. That's the language. But there are other pictures of God's people and their relationship too. That isn't just sort of this romantic comedy kind of picture, although that's really prominent. In fact, that's the third most used sort of reference to God and his people is as a husband and a wife. That's actually how he describes his relationship. The first most used picture is of a shepherd and a sheep. This is the relationship God has with his people. You see it over and over again in the prophets. But the second most used one, which is maybe particularly significant today, is that it's a father and child. Throughout the writing of the prophets, there is this constant theme. Again, you see that sort of begins to get developed. And one of the things is as a father and a child. Here's Hosea chapter 11. Verse one says this, when Israel was a child, I loved him. Notice the language. And out of Egypt, I called my son, but the more they were called, the more they went away from me. You get this very clear picture of what prophecy actually is. Israel is called a child and then he called out of Egypt, I called my son, but then they, they wandered away. They broke up with me. Now what's so incredible to think about this is that if you have a picture of this idea of this sort of confrontational tone, but as a father to his own kids, you could describe that or characterize it as simply tough love. Now some of you have been, someone just treated you like a jerk and they're like, that's just tough love. That might not have been true. Like being a jerk is not the same thing as tough love. Just make sure we're all on the same page. The operative thing here is love. It is not licensed to be a jerk, but part of loving another person sometimes is having the willingness to say the tough things. Having willingness to say the tough things. That's different than the way the world is now. The world says if you, if you, the world would sort of basically categorize love as a kind of blind acceptance and aloof permissiveness. And if you were ever to say something, I don't know if that's okay, then that makes you an unloving person in the world's eyes. But we know that there is something really true about the idea that sometimes we need to hear the tough things because of love. And when we encounter them in the Bible, these tough things, it's so unbelievably important that you and I understand that the beating heart of the Bible is the calling of wayward kids home to their father. The language might get really harsh. The words might get really tough. And if you were to extract just a little one or two of those words out of the Bible, you'd be like, what's this Bible all about? And that's true. But if you're to look at it in a bigger, broader sense that this is about God calling wayward kids home to the father, then it becomes a little bit clearer what we're doing. And that refrain starts to take on a little bit more shape. And there's a command that does all of the prophets build their particular message on. And it's one word. It's the word that just starts out very, it starts really sort of simple and clean, and it just keeps getting built on and expanding. And that word is this word in Hebrew, teshuvah. Over and over and over again. The root word of teshuvah is this simply this word, turn. All the time. In fact, you can keep seeing it throughout the writing. You just see this word turn comes up over and over again. Return or turn. What this looks like in the book of Hosea, which I'll show you in a second, is this. After a long series of painful, tough love things that God is saying through his prophet Hosea to his people. I mean, if you were to read the subject headings in the book of Hosea, you would just see what the subject headings are added way later. You just see things like punishment or anger or frustration that God has for Israel. It's like, these aren't the ones that people get tattooed or needle point onto a thing. These are like, wow, this is really harsh stuff. It is really harsh. No question about it. But after a long series of this painful, tough love stuff, then comes this promise. The very last chapter of Hosea looks like this. I'm going to show you this. Notice the language. Hosea 14. Return. Shuvah. Return Israel to the Lord your God. Your sins have been your downfall. Take your words with you and return. Shuvah to the Lord. Say to him, forgive all our sins and receive us graciously that we may offer the fruit of our lives. Remember, this is the prophet speaking to the people in God's voice. Say, forgive our sins, receive us graciously. Assyria cannot save us. We'll not mount warhorses. We'll never again say our gods to what our own hands have made. What they're saying here is this. They would make a thing out of wood or stone or something like that or iron and they would say, this is our God. Make it and then call it. This is our God. We just made this. What they're saying is we're not going to have these idols anymore. We're not going to ever say again our gods to what our own hands have made. For in you, the fatherless find compassion. It continues. Then God's voice switches to his own voice. I'll heal their waywardness and love them freely for my anger has turned away from them. I'll be like the dew to Israel. He, Israel, will blossom like a lily, like a cedar of Lebanon. He will send down his roots. Who is wise? Let them realize these things. What you get is that the invitation is a coming to confess and anticipating what God will do to receive them. That's what that is. That's the words of the prophet at the end of that book. Let me just ask you though, just right now in this moment, a tough love message from God to me might say something. Turn from blank. Now you might be wrong, but if you had to guess, if there was a tough love message to you right now from God, it might be like this. Turn from blank. What is it? Is it a habit? Is it an addiction? Is it a kind of bitterness? Is it a self-righteous kind of judgment about other people? Is it a sense of your own kind of elevated, I'm so wonderful, isn't it great to be me? It's too bad for everybody else? Is it a thing you keep going back to? You can't stop, you just keep going on back to it. You keep trying to get away from it and you're, like a lot of us, we kind of give ourselves, which just tends to be our typical things. We tend to give ourselves a little bit of permission. I'm not that, so I get to do this. We keep going back to it. This is true of me. It's true of all of us. Maybe it's, in some cases, it's a really good thing. It's like everybody would acknowledge the thing that you keep going back to, or the thing that you hold on to is really good, but it's become the ultimate thing. And in that sense, it's become something that was never intended to become. And maybe God's just sort of saying, maybe you ought to turn from that. Shoo, turn. Now it's no surprise. Jesus has the continuation of the same message, even in his own teaching and his own ministry. The same phrase is. Comes up again. Now remember, here's the Hebrew word for to Shoova or turn, Shoov, turn. That word in Greek, when you go to the Old Testament, part of the ministry, part of the life of the Bible between God and his people, there, you know, all that story before Jesus ministry. And then the life of the early church, which is the New Testament. The New Testament is written not in Hebrew, but in Greek. And that word looks like this in Greek, metanoia. Now when I show you the actual, the actual English version of the word metanoia, remember what you're looking at is turn, turn. I'm going to show it to you. And some of you will recognize this word, but you've not heard it in this term before. That word is repent. Now you've heard this word before, some of you, but it sounded like this, repent, repent. There was like some sort of, usually it had a really deep South anger kind of attached to it and repent, you know, like it's like a big threat, you know, like coming at you. And you heard it that way. I just want to say when you look at it from the way that the Bible comes at it, it's just simply saying the word metanoia is just a whole life U-turn. I was going one direction and I'm done going that direction and I'm turning the other way. Metanoia, return. Here's Jesus's own words at the very beginning of his ministry in Mark chapter one. The time has come, he said, the kingdom of God has come near. By the time it's coming, it's come to fulfillment. The kingdom of God has come near. Repent, U-turn and believe the good news. Now with that being said, the turn is just when Jesus is inviting people to this, what he's saying is remember the big arc of the Bible, you don't have to live like orphans anymore. You don't have to live like orphans at all. And in that sense, repent isn't a threat, like maybe some of us have heard it or characterized it. It's really an invitation to come home. The problem with Jesus over and over again is that people look to Jesus and were like, you keep inviting the wrong people to come home because they're too far gone. Over and over again, Jesus, you keep telling people you can turn back, you can come back and the critics of Jesus always were like, wait a second, you can't tell those people because they have gone too far. They cannot turn. And maybe that's how you felt about yourself. Maybe someone made you feel that way. Maybe you understood that God is like, look, he's for some people, but I know what I've done. And every single person in this room has some measure of some secrets in here that if people found out about him, we would all be devastated. The criticism always of Jesus is that he kept associating with people and inviting people who everybody else had regarded as too far gone. Over and over again, Jesus reiterates that's not possible to be too far gone. What's important to keep in mind in the invitation about sort of returning, what's so crucial to keep in mind is returning always involves leaving, meaning you can't stay in one place and also be in another. Some of you might be going to like Hawaii this summer and we're all jealous of you. That's great. We're excited for you to go there, but you can't decide to go there and be there and also be here at the same time. You're going to have to decide to leave one place to go to another. That's what returning is. Returning always involves leaving. And there's also in the early church, then there's another way of depicting this whole journey. You know, Shuv or Teshuvah takes on, it's a dramatic symbol and a return from an old life. It's this way, the New Testament, the early church begins to characterize this idea of turning around. It's the word baptism. Baptism. Now the word baptism gets actually clarified here. Looks like this. Don't you know that all of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus, that's not referring to the dunking of people underwater or a wonderful horse trough like we have. It's referring to something else. The word baptism, which will get symbolized very much quite literally because the word baptism literally means the word to immerse or to place into. When they're talking about people being baptized into Jesus, the way this is written here is it's saying you have been placed into, you have been fully immersed in the person of Christ Jesus as it says right here. Through faith you are fully immersed in the person of Jesus. It further gets more extreme. Again, remember we're talking about coming home or returning. Don't you know that all of us who are baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? That's weird. I understand. Let me clarify even further. We were therefore buried with him through baptism into death. In order that just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the father, we too may live a new life. Now all that is to say is when we through faith in Jesus are put into his own life, we're buried with him just like he was buried and then raised to walk in a new life. So here's how I illustrate this every time we do baptisms. Some of you will recognize this. Hold out your hand just like this. Everybody do it just so you get them. You're going to do this. It's going to be really helpful. Now all in faith we're buried with Christ in baptism. Remember he died on a cross, buried with Christ in baptism, all of our sin and death. By the way, if you're being baptized, it's how long I hold you under the water. Deep breath. So at this point right now all buried with Christ in baptism raised to walk in a new life. People are buried under the water and raised to walk in a new life. That's what you're doing. What is happening in baptism is the symbolic representation of being baptized into Jesus. You've been baptized into Jesus, buried with Christ in baptism, raised to walk in a new life. That's all that that is. By the way, this is our new cult wave. If you see each other, we all know you belong. Okay, no, anyway. Leaving and burying old things, being raised in a new life in Jesus. The invitation on this Father's Day, and you're going to see people get baptized in a minute, the invitation, you can do it too if you're like I'm not sure if I should, you know, I haven't done this. I'm not sure if I should be baptized. If you're not sure, but you have already said yes to Jesus, then you should do it. And you're like, but my hair, I'm going out to brunch. It's fine. Everybody, it's cool. Everybody will think it's cool. Don't worry about it. We'll even give you a t-shirt. Okay, so anyway, now the invitation at Father's Day is two words. And if you could get this, it's the message of the prophets. It's the summary of all the instruments and the chorus coming together. That same melody played all the way out and blown up into huge ways. The huge, the message of the prophets and the message to you on Father's Day. In a moment, we'll see the baptism, which will culminate in that baptism is this, this two word phrase. Come home. Come home. Come home. Some of you needed to hear that. You haven't heard that in a long time. Come home. Maybe for some of you, it's the first time you get to come home to Jesus. You never really thought about it in those terms. You thought about it like I got to get my act together. Man, I got it because then I can come home. And the invitation isn't to do that. It's just to simply come home. Just, hey, leave that old life and come on. We'll take care of the rest of that stuff. Maybe you're tired of wandering around. Come home. Maybe even searching for some answers and you keep coming up empty. And we say it all the time around it. We do not have all the answers. We just know that we belong into a life with Jesus. And so maybe for you, that's a person for you. You're like, I don't know what to do. I'm feeling still pretty empty. Come home. Maybe you're trying to make sense of a life that you're living and you're trying to figure out how to justify it or trying to figure out, trying to convince yourself that it feels amazing, that it is great. But you know deep down it's not the life that you want. Trapped in relationships, lost in a particular kind of loneliness and calling it success or calling it whatever. Come home. Maybe you felt unwanted or unworthy. Every one of us in here has cut stuff. Like I said, we've all got secrets that if people knew about it they'd be horrified. We've all given ourselves some permission at some point. Never too far gone. Come home. Come home. Baptism is a symbol of someone who has come home, who has left one place and arrived at another. It is the transformation that God has done but is not yet finished in a person. It is not magic. It does not make someone a Christian. It is a symbol of what God has done. And maybe for some of you the first step isn't, just because you've already maybe you haven't come to this first step, but the first step is probably just simply saying I want to come home. Maybe you celebrate it with baptism, but let's start with coming home. Would you pray with me and then we'll have some baptisms and we'll talk about coming home. Jesus, in so many areas of our lives we get lost and lonely and we wander and we need you to come get us. So we want to leave our old life. It's not as we don't know how. Father forgive us that we tried to make sense of things in a way that we did not know what we were doing. We screwed it up. Forgive us. We need your forgiveness. We want to come home. Maybe for the first time in your life you don't have all the, you don't know much about the church or the Bible or anything else, but you've got a sense that God might be calling you home to Him. Maybe for the first time it's just yes Jesus I want to come home. Father though baptism is something that maybe a lot of us have done or maybe we've seen before, might we continually live a life that is dying to old things and stepping into new things that you call us to by the power of your spirit Jesus. Father we get to celebrate now this milestone in people's lives as they're buried with you in baptism and raised to walk in a new life. We're grateful that that's the work you do in an ongoing basis in our life Jesus. In your name that we pray right now amen. Folks we're gonna do some baptisms. This is gonna be pretty cool. If that's something you want to do and you're like I didn't plan on it just head over there we'll get you all checked in. We'll put you in this super warm water in our glorious horse trough okay. Let's get some baptisms going. Will you stand as we celebrate and sing together. I've got nothing new how could I express oh my gratitude I could sing these songs as I often do Chang's  I've got one response  I've got two answers  I've got one response  I've got two answers  I've got just one move  With my arms stretched wide  I will worship you  So I throw out my hands  Praise you again and again  All that I have is a hallelujah  Hallelujah  I know it's not much  I'm nothing else  Before the King  The devil and I are singing  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Yes  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Oh, we praise you  Oh, we praise you, yeah  Come on, my soul  Don't you get shy on me  Lift up your song  You've got a lion inside of those lungs  Get up and praise the Lord  Come on, my soul  Don't you get shy on me  Lift up your song  You've got a lion inside of those lungs  Get up and praise the Lord  Come on, my soul  Don't you get shy on me  Lift up your song  You've got a lion inside of those lungs  Get up and praise the Lord  Oh, come on  Come on, my soul  Don't you get shy on me  Lift up your song  You've got a lion inside of those lungs  Get up and praise the Lord  Yes  Oh, we praise you  Oh, we praise you  Oh, look at what you're doing  Come on, praise the Lord  Now throw up my hands  And we praise you again and again  All that I have is your hallelujah  Hallelujah  I know it's all good  I'm nothing else but for the King  Except for our hearts singing hallelujah  Hallelujah  So I'll throw up my hands  Praise you again and again  All that I have is your hallelujah  Hallelujah  I know it's all good  I'm nothing else but for the King  Except for our hearts singing hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Come on, my soul  Don't you get shy on me  Lift up your song  You've got a lion inside of those lungs  Get up and praise the Lord  Come on, come on  Come on, my soul  Don't you get shy on me  Lift up your song  You've got a lion inside of those lungs  Get up and praise the Lord  Come on, come on  Come on, my soul  Don't you get shy on me  Lift up your song  You've got a lion inside of those lungs  Get up and praise the Lord  So I'll throw up my hands  Praise you again and again  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah  Hallelujah Hallelujah, hallelujah And I know it's not much I'm nothing else fit for a king Except for a heart singing Hallelujah, hallelujah Hallelujah I love you Lord For your mercy never fails me All in my days I've been held in your hand From the moment that I wake up Until I lay my head Oh I will sing Of the goodness of God And all my life you have been faithful And all my life you have been so, so good With every breath that I am able Oh I will sing Of the goodness of God Oh I will sing And all my life you have been faithful And all my life you have been so, so good With every breath that I am able Oh I will sing Of the goodness of God Of the goodness of God Oh I will sing Of the goodness of God Oh I will sing Of the goodness of God Applause That's so fun. By the way, if you're a person, we don't have time to do anymore. But we have another service. So in 50 minutes we can do another one. If you're like, I should have done it. But if I get a message from God to get baptized, this is your message from God right now. Okay, I just want to tell you, this is it. This is the miraculous moment you're waiting for. You can still do it next year. We have one more service to do this. So, but we do have to make some room for the 1130 service. So here's what I want you to do. Would you hold out your hands? Would you receive this as a blessing? If you're not comfortable with this, that's okay. However you want to hold your hands, that's all right. Would you receive these words as a blessing to you? From the prophet Isaiah who writes these words. I made you and you are my servant. I will not forget you. I've swept away your offenses like a cloud and your sins like the morning mist. Return to me for I have redeemed you. Sing for joy you heavens for the Lord has done this. Shout aloud you earth beneath. Burst into song you mountains, your forests and all your trees for the Lord has redeemed. He displays his glory. Wherever it is that you might wander, find yourself being wayward, lost, lonely, overwhelmed. If you ever wonder to yourself, I've gone too far. There is no too far that God's love cannot reach. He calls you home to him. Whatever it is that you encounter, may the love of the Father and the grace of the Son and the fellowship and comfort of the Holy Spirit be among you all in Jesus name. Amen. God bless you guys. If you have needs for prayer, we'd love to pray with you. Come back next service. We got more baptisms to do. God bless you.