Good morning, Harbour Point, come on, all over this room, would you stand up and put your hands up for a little bit more?
Together, we come to celebrate the one that we believe in. That is Jesus Christ. Come on, put those hands.
Let's sing.
If you believe, won't you put them together?
Yeah, I believe in crucifixion.
By His blood, I have been severed.
I believe in resurrection.
Hallelujah, if a life is death to me.
Let's sing all praise.
Hallelujah, yes I do.
Hallelujah, I believe in Him.
I believe in the hope of heaven.
He's preparing the place for me.
Far beyond my heart's imagine.
Here's a bird and night I see.
I believe that He's going.
His return is to blame, it's bright.
Light the altar, keep it burning.
See the light, the rose of holy light, yeah.
All praise to the Father.
All praise to Christ the Son.
All praise to the Holy Spirit.
Our God has overblown.
The King, the Word, there is, and never more will be.
And Jesus, writing in, I believe, yeah.
I believe in You, Lord, and I trust You.
I believe in You, though I'll never be ashamed.
Of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
How could I ever walk away?
Will the Word have saved my life?
No, I'll never.
No, I'll never be ashamed.
Of the gospel of Jesus.
How could I ever walk away?
From the Word who saves my life?
No, I'll never.
No, I'll never be ashamed.
Of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
How could I ever walk away?
From the Word who saves my life?
No, I'll never.
All praise to the Father.
All praise to Christ the Son.
All praise to the Holy Spirit.
Our God has overblown.
The King, the Word, there is, and never more will be.
And Jesus, writing in, I believe.
And Jesus, writing in, I believe.
I believe, I believe, I believe, I believe, I believe.
I believe in you.
How can you believe in Jesus today?
Won't you give him some praise?
We serve a God that is more than able.
Now unto him who is more than able to do exceeding,
abundantly, how baffled we can ask for things.
Continue on our worship and sing unto the Lord.
We trust you to depend on the Lord.
The Son.
When did I start to forgive?
All of the great things you did.
And when did I throw away my faith for Him?
In the gospel of love?
And how did I start to believe?
You were to fish and fall.
And why do I talk my sick?
How can I forgive you?
How can you believe in God?
You are more than able.
You are more than able.
Stay it again.
You are more than able.
Oh, hear the people today,
waiting loud.
You are more than able.
So who art to deny what the Lord can do?
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
oh
More than able to rely, to deny what the Lord can do
Can't you imagine?
And all of the faith in the room, what the Lord can do
What the Lord can do
Yeah, it's gonna happen
Just like the way we make it through
It's gonna load
It's gonna load
Can't you imagine?
Can't you imagine?
With all of the faith in the room
What the Lord can do
What the Lord can do
And it's gonna happen
Just like the way we make it through
It's gonna load
It's gonna load
Anything is possible
We declare it today
Anything is possible
Anything is possible
So you and I, to deny what the Lord can do
Anything is possible
Anything is possible
They believe in you
Anything is possible
So you and I, to deny what the Lord can do
So you and I, to deny what the Lord can do
So you and I, to deny what the Lord can do
Yeah, it's easy for you
I believe in you
See, you are more than people
Why don't you close your eyes and sing that
It's a place of faith to sing
So you are more than people
You are more than people
We trust you are
You are more than people
Who am I to deny what the Lord can do
Yes, Jesus
What a God we serve
We're gonna sing a new song
It's called You Keep Hope Alive
It's very easy
So I'm gonna teach you first
But it's all proclaiming the hope that is in Jesus
Because we have hope in Him
Hope to live for tomorrow
Let's stand in this world
Let's sing this
Sing
Day makes me darkest
But your light is greater
You will light our way
God, you will light our way
And with evil it's rising
You're rising higher
With power to save
With power to save
I'm gonna teach you
You keep hope alive
You keep hope alive
From the beginning to when
Your word never fails
You keep hope alive
Because you are alive
Jesus, you are alive
Death had a strong hope
And your light is stronger
You're always strong
Liberator rose up from the red
Anybody believe it today
That the evil is rising
You're rising higher
With power to save
With power to save
Come on, you got that
Come on, let's show it all together
You keep hope alive
You keep hope alive
From the beginning to when
Your word never fails
You keep hope alive
Because you are alive
Jesus, you are alive
With power to save
Death had a strong hope
And your light is stronger
You keep hope alive
Because you're living hope
Because you're breathing this hope
In the brave hope
In the silent hope
For this moment alone
Once you're rising, there is hope
Give the morning hope
In the evening this hope
Because you're living hope
Because you're breathing this hope
In the brave hope
In the silent hope
For this moment alone
For tomorrow
You keep hope alive
You keep hope alive
From the beginning to when
Your word never fails
You keep hope alive
Because you are alive
Jesus, you are still alive
You keep hope alive
You keep hope alive
From the beginning to when
Your word never fails
You keep hope alive
Because you are alive
Jesus, you are alive
You keep hope alive
You keep hope alive
From the beginning to when
Your word never fails
You keep hope alive
Because you are alive
Jesus, you are alive
You're alive
You are alive
Don't you rest in it
I don't have to worry about a thing
Because you're alive
You keep hope alive
You keep my hope alive
In the middle of the storm
You're standing right there with me
In the middle of the fog
You keep hope alive
Thank you, Lord
If my grandma was here and she wouldn't sing it like this
She would say, because she lives
I can face tomorrow
Because Jesus lives
All of my fears, they're gone
Because I know
I know, I know
He holds you in His future
In life
It's worth living just
Because Jesus lives
It's an old song, old song
I'm 33, but I got an old soul
I love those songs, you know
Can I say one more time, just receive it
Receive it, let it encourage your spirit
Back in the black church, we just used to sing songs
When people get excited, because it was the truth
Because He lives
Someone needs to hear that
I can face tomorrow
Because Jesus lives
All of my fears, they are gone
They are gone
Because I know
I know, I know
He holds my future in
Life isn't worth
I don't have to give up
It's worth living just
Because you are my Savior
He lives
If you know He lives, that's right
Give the Lord some praise
My life is worth living because He lives
Because Jesus lives
I'm gonna leave that alone before I start running
Welcome to Harbor Point, how y'all doing?
Yeah
I know y'all wondering again
This man is shouting at me again
Y'all black dude, you gotta get off the stage
Y'all, hey, I love you too
I love you too
Y'all, I'm so grateful to be here today
This is an amazing church, so glad
I'm singing with my sister Brittany
Who is Kobe's wife
And she's singing for the first time
In what, four or five years?
Jesus
Me and Kobe and Brittany, we go way back
We got the same alma mater in Ohio
And when I got my first job out of college
I was living with them in Houston, Texas
And they let me live there like a little brother
For free, just trying to find my way
Somehow, I got myself out to California
Because of Kobe
And it's cool, like in this moment
I've been singing here and there, here and now
We're getting to lead and love God together
Again, so I'm so grateful for both of you
Love you, Kobe, don't y'all love Kobe?
I ain't gonna say nothing smart this time
Alright, well, I love you too
And why don't you tell some people around you
I love you, and then you may have a seat
Okay
Hey everyone, thanks for joining us today
We're so glad you're here
At Harbor Point, giving is more than just a financial transaction
It's part of our worship
It's a tangible expression of our devotion and gratitude to God
Demonstrating that our hearts are centered on Him
Each week, we bring our offerings as an expression of our commitment
To God's work in and through His Church
Whether this is your first time giving
Or you're continuing your giving
Please take a look at the various ways you can contribute
Thank you for your generosity
We're thrilled to continue our summer series
At the Movies
This year, you can enjoy At the Movies at two locations
The Regency Theatre in San Juan on Sundays at 10 a.m.
And at Harbor Point for our regular weekend services
And don't forget Encore
Bringing our At the Movies experience to Regency Theatre
On Thursday nights at 6.30 p.m.
It's a fantastic opportunity to invite your friends, neighbors, and coworkers
If you've been a part of Harbor Point for a while
You've heard us say that every good thing that we do is done through great volunteers
And that's you
When I think of some of the amazing volunteers
I think of Travis and Tina
Who served so faithfully on our worship team for Harbor Point's VBS
We're so grateful for how they gave their time and talents
To pour into the next generation
So, if you're already serving at Harbor Point
We would love to say thank you
Or if you're curious about what it might look like to step into serving
We want to invite you to our volunteer rally and lunch
Sunday, August 18th at 12.45 p.m.
You can register today through our app or online
Or through the QR code in front of you
Men of Harbor Point Man Camp 2024 is just a few weeks away
This transformative retreat will offer a unique opportunity to step away
From the daily life and connect with God and other men in our community
You'll experience powerful worship, inspiring messages, and build lasting friendships
Man Camp will take place at Forest Home from August 23rd to 25th
As summer comes to a close
Student ministries will be holding their end of summer celebrations
Over the next couple weeks
High school will be celebrating with a beach bonfire at Dohini on Thursday, August 15th
Junior High will be holding their summer celebration here on campus on Thursday, August 22nd
For more information and to sign up, just scan the QR codes in front of you
Or go online to our website
We would love to see you in person for our at the movie series here at Harbor Point Campus
Or the Regency Theater
But we thank you so much for joining us online today for our series on anxiety called
A Back of Angry Beasts
Alright, hey everybody, how's it going?
Yeah, you guys chose a 10 o'clock service, you love traffic, you feel like it's raining
We can get some traffic going to start my week off in the right way
Just prepare your heart a little challenge immediately
Like, how am I gonna put to test the fact that I just learned something about Jesus
But to find a parking lot that's miserable and work my way out of it
And you did it, you found it, way to go
Glad you guys made it, those of you guys are in the tent, glad you guys made it
Those of you in the balcony, I see you guys up there, glad you guys made it as well
It is so good to be with you guys and for those of you guys who are online
Of course, we say this every single week
The best expression of our church is that we get a chance, whenever we get a chance to be together
Because the people of our church are amazing, and really you guys are
I'm really grateful to be with you guys, so fun
If you're, and I know you had to drive today through a puddle
You had to activate the all-wheel drive feature on your car
And you made it, it's incredible, so great stuff happening, let's get right to it
We have a lot to cover as we talk about this
By the way, if you're new with us, I'm Jeff and I just want to make sure we're clear
We do not have all the answers, this is not a church where we have everything figured out
Here's what we know, we're looking at Jesus, we believe we were made with conviction for life with Jesus
And that requires everybody to help us along the way
Everybody's got a next step in that, so whether you're new, whether you're checking out Jesus
You're investigating the church or whatever, we are convinced everybody's got a next step to take
Our hope is that you find this to be a community of people who don't have it all together
Who are work in progress kind of people doing that stuff
So, however that is, grateful that you're here, let's get right to it
I want to show you a commercial from 1990, and I just want you to notice, just pay attention as you watch this commercial
Some of you will recognize it, and if you recognize it, you're an old person
Okay, but, I recognize it, it's fine
But I just want you to notice, I want you to take in all of the anxiety in this commercial
Check this out, okay, here we go
Mary Clary thinks her zipper bags are the best, and will never switch to Gladlock zipper bags
That's right, never
Mary Clary, what do you say we lock you in this phone booth here, with either your bag filled with angry bees
Or a Gladlock bag filled with angry bees
See that green color chain seal there, Mayor? That shows you the Gladlock bag is closed
Your bag doesn't have a green seal
You know, change is good, I'll take the Gladlock zipper bag
Just kidding, Mayor
When it really counts, don't get mad, get Gladlock zipper bags
Okay, some of you remember this commercial
Now, what I want to, obviously it's a goofy commercial, and I'll help you by over-analyzing it and taking it way too seriously
Okay, that's the gift I bring
But, let's look at this for a moment
This ad is a question about which bag, it's a question about bag choice
Which one has a better seal, the yellow and green seal, or the yellow and blue seal, which makes the green thing
Which all of us were convinced we needed back in 1990, and it was so crucial
And in fact, as you look at this, this question is about which bag
Would you rather have hold the angry bees that we're going to give you
And secondly, we're going to put you into this phone booth, which you've somehow agreed to do this
The whole premise of this whole thing is based on an incredibly disturbing idea
That these people who are making this scenario happen, not only have they got bees to give a person to hold
But also they have the power to convince this person they should get into a phone booth
And for those of you who don't know what a phone booth is
It's like an elevator that doesn't go anywhere, that's all that it is
It's the same thing, you're talking on a phone but it's in a tiny little space and nobody else joins you in there
But in any event, they have this power to lock this person into a phone booth to which they're agreeing to do
And the whole question, the whole, how is this okay with everybody?
How is she not like, why don't you just take all the bees and go away, I don't want to do any of this
I don't care what bag you use, I'm not doing this, this whole thing is stupid
The power dynamic, everything, like I'm going to convince her and we're going to lock her in this thing
How is she not just like, no, I'm not doing that
The question is, and why are people saying yes to this
And the question, over the whole scenario, which again, I realize I'm taking it too seriously
The question is, well who's in charge here? Who thought this was a good idea?
Who thought this would be okay? Who gets bees and then makes them angry by shaking them and handing them to a person
And says, then we're going to lock you in a phone booth, the whole thing is bizarre and absurd
And who's in charge here
Now that question, who's in charge here, is a critical question when it comes to anxiety
Who's in charge here?
We're in week two of a series called The Bag of Angry Bees and it's a series on anxiety
Because nothing really kind of captures the idea of anxiety like a bag of angry bees
But I want to catch us up a little bit, if you weren't here last week and make sure we're all in the same sort of playing fields
As we talk about this idea of anxiety
One of the things we said last week was this, is that we have to differentiate between fear and anxiety
Fear is the response to something that has happened
Like bear, person with a knife coming after us, oh my gosh that's fear
Anxiety is, what if there's a bear, what if we go there and there's a person with a knife?
That's anxiety, are you with me? One's anticipating a thing, one is responding to a particular thing
And we said generally what happens when we're talking about anxiety is that the thing that's happening
Or even the thing that's a concern is a reasonable concern
But in anxiety we take that up to an unreasonable response level
Or an unreasonable sort of anticipation level, are you with me?
Now, we also said this, it's so important to keep in mind that all anxieties have something in common
Every single anxiety is really about having a low tolerance for uncertainty
It's about a low tolerance for things that are not certain
And for those of us who have anxiety, we know people that do, we know that statistically
All of us know someone who is suffering from some form of anxiety
It's one in three teenagers and one in five adults, this is the statistics, most current statistics on this
Which means you work with people, know people, you live next to someone, you have someone in your house perhaps
Or you yourself as someone who has anxiety
And as we talk about it, more than likely depending on how you grew up or where you grew up
What kind of healthy environment you might have encountered
Some of you got the experience of, or at least the impression that if you do have anxiety
The best solution is simply as people have told us or we've understood is simply snap out of it
Just stop having anxiety, just stop, just don't, just get over it
It's a thing, sure, but be really great at doing stuff
Compensate by being high functioning
And just live in society with this thing and never really deal with it
Because you shouldn't have to deal with it, just snap out of it
And some of us got the impression, either by our own thinking or because someone told us
We were told, here's what you should do
Just find some people in the world who have greater anxiety than you
And then by comparison, you won't care anymore
You know, there's conflict in the Middle East, yeah, it's pretty anxious for those people
So I guess I don't get to deal with mine, which never really deals with either of the anxieties
In either case
And if you're a person who grew up in the church and you talk to a person who's like
You know, like you had enough courage to tell a person who's a Jesus follower
Who maybe they're a little misguided, but you're like, hey, I just want to let you know
I'm suffering from something I think is anxiety or maybe depression
And they were like, I have a Bible verse for you
Don't be anxious about anything, thank you so much
And they're like, well, don't be anxious
But in every situation by prayer and petition with Thanksgiving, present your request to God
And you're just like, well, I don't know what you're supposed to do with that
I guess I'm not supposed to have this, because the solution to having anxieties apparently just don't
And if I don't know how to deal with that, then I have to kind of hide it away and deal with it as a shame thing
Because I'm not supposed to have it, and so it never really gets dealt with at all
The truth is, all of us have some question about anxiety at some level
And here's what we know, that if a person with anxiety was to answer this question
Who's in charge?
A person who's suffering from anxiety, if they were asked the question, hey, who's in charge?
What they would say is, and again, I'm paraphrasing, but to say it this way
My feelings or my thoughts are in charge, I'm not in charge, not me, I'm not in charge
I'm freaking out here
And this is where it starts, this is where anxiety begins to become kind of an issue
In other words, probably another way to say it is this
Anxiety has a double effect
There's the anxiety that we feel, and then there's the way we feel about our anxiety
To say it this way, I'm freaking out about freaking out
And this is why people get stuck in it
It's not just that I'm freaking out as if that was enough
It's that now I have anxiety about my anxiety
Like, what am I supposed to do with this thing when I can't control and all of it starts to spiral
And you maybe have this experience, or do you know people who do
And here's what I want to do today
I want to give us one tool
It's not the answer to everything, it doesn't solve all the anxiety
It's just one really underutilized, very accessible tool
That also requires a pretty significant amount of courage as well
It's just gonna, and just again, to make sure we reiterate
I'm not an expert
Someone told you were doing a series on anxiety
You might have thought you're like, maybe you're new and you're like, I'm not sure about Jesus
But I'll come here that and you thought, they told you I'm an expert on this
I'm not an expert, I'm not a therapist, this is not my degree
I'm a fellow traveler in this
I do a little bit of research on some stuff
I'm looking at the Bible when it comes to this sort of thing
My wife and I walk through our own anxiety, different journeys
But I do want to point to some ways of addressing anxiety today
And it's kind of a next step building on what we did last week
But I also want to tell you this, fair warning
The way we're gonna get to this one tool is a very windy road
Some of you are familiar with the way that I do this sometimes
I don't appreciate the laughter
It's fine, it's fine
But you're gonna be like, what in the world are we doing?
And then I promise I will bring it back home
But you're gonna wonder for a little bit
Because I'm gonna start in a place you may not expect
And then we're gonna get there
So I'm gonna start in ancient Near Eastern Temple construction
Because that's where you thought I was gonna go
Here's what we're gonna do, I'm totally serious
Ancient Near Eastern Temple construction
Here's what happens, it happens in six phases
This is the first of the phases, it starts like this
It's the boundary making of a particular thing
Here's where things are, here's where things are
This separates the sacred space from the not sacred space
Boundary making
Then after things are sort of put up, there's some filming
There's some filling of things and some further separation of things
There's either, sometimes there's interior spaces
Which are separated from other spaces
All this is pretty typical in the Ancient Near East
And the sixth phase of the Temple construction
Whatever it is, whatever god that's being worshipped there
You typically, it's placed within there on the sixth phase
So there's typically a six or seven day phase of this sort of creation
Sort of the creation of a temple
And on the sixth phase, this is when the statue is placed into the temple
To give people an idea of what god is going to be worshipped in that temple
Now, there are six days, there's a seven day creation
But there's a six day creation narrative in the Bible
Let me show you what happens on the sixth day of creation
So god created mankind in his own image
And the image of god, he created them male and female
He created them, this is the sixth day of creation
Now, let me pause right here for a second
What's being said by this, many scholars agree
That the whole cosmos, by looking at the creation narrative in the Bible
Which some of you are like, I'm not sure I'm buying into that yet
That's okay, don't worry about it, just stay with me on this
That the whole cosmos, the Bible will say, is god's temple
The entire thing, no temple could contain him
So the whole cosmos is his temple
And instead of a statue on the sixth phase of the creation, sixth day
It's a person, people become the representation of this god
In his temple, the whole cosmos
But the people aren't just a decoration, there's more, verse 28
God blessed them and said to them, be fruitful and increase in number
And fill the earth and subdue it some translations
And have dominion over it
Rule over the fish of the sea and the birds in the sky
And over every living creature that moves on the ground
So this, the people aren't just simply decoration
There's more there, they're blessed and they're told to multiply and have dominion
And the answer to the question, who's in charge of all of the created stuff?
The answer is, people are
People are supposed to have dominion over to subdue this creation
In fact, the only thing to which people are supposed to be subject to
Is god himself, other than that, they're supposed to be over all of these things
It's gift to Genesis chapter 2, where it gets a little bit more specific about some of this stuff
Verse 19, now the Lord God had formed out of the ground
All the wild animals and all the birds of the sky
And he brought them to the man to see what he would name them
And whatever the man called each living creature, that was its name
So the man gave names to all the livestock, the birds in the sky and all the wild animals
Notice what's happening here, there's something about this man
This created, this image of God placed into this whole cosmos
Which now has this responsibility to name everything
Again, this might be a challenge for some of you
Like I'm not sure I believe, just stay with the point of what's happening here
Because here's what's happening in naming
Naming is a very crucial thing in the Bible
Now what happens in all naming, now at least of which the Bible is this
The first thing that happens is this, there is a differentiation from a thing
So when someone names a thing, it says this is a that and I'm not that
That's not me, over there is that, I can separate that thing, whatever it is from me
That's separate from me
Those are animals, I'm not, that's animals, I'm me
Does that make sense, this is differentiation, you're different than me
That's what's being said, when we name a thing
Secondly what happens in naming is sort of an authority over
Probably better said is it implies they're taking responsibility for a thing
So the naming of a thing not only creates a differentiation, I'm not that, that's not me
But it also implies some level of authority over the thing being named
This is why if you have ever read the Hebrew scripture, the Hebrew Bible
The Old Testament, the Old Covenant
Part of what you get in that part of the Bible is you get this really interesting
Kind of conversation about names
Not least of which is the name of God
Which is kind of if you read Moses' interaction with God
In the burning bush story, perhaps you've heard of that story before
But one of the things Moses keeps asking God is cool
What do I tell people your name is as if to say
Because it's a secret thing that never gets really totally disclosed
It's so unbelievably important and sacred
In fact, to this day, you will find
Very observant Jews who will not refer to God even by the name God
They'll refer to God as this word, Hashem
Who in that word simply means the name
Like we don't even want to whisper, say the name of God
Because it's so holy, it would contain him and he is beyond containment
So the word simply to describe God is just the name
Names are crucial
Names have all sorts of relevance in the Bible
But you know this, even nicknaming has rules
Some of you have nicknames, you had a nickname growing up
Maybe you still go by that nickname
Maybe introduce yourself as a particular name
Maybe, you know, like, but there's some rules that go along with that
You know that there's rules about that
Now the first rule of nicknaming is
You don't get to choose your own nickname
You don't get to decide
Like I don't get to say, you guys just want to let you know
Now I'm going by MacGyver
Kind of rhymes with McGuire
Plus the guy could build a glider out of, you know, like the gum
And like a, you know, rubber band
And he could like, oh look, let's fly away and escape
He never used a gun, he just, as long as he had like a
Like a scuba tank, he could save the world
You know, I'm going by McGuire, you guys are coming by McGyver now
Woo, I'm just going, you know that doesn't work
That's not how it goes, you can't choose your nickname
You don't get to choose it, it has to be bestowed upon you
And the way it always works is sort of a top-down method
Either the leader, the group of a person is like
You're now this, or the group decides
Hey, we've decided you're going by this nickname
You'll get to choose it, you can't declare it
It's what we've all decided because it's a top-down method
It's the way it's worked, it never gets to be the other way
It's always sort of top-down, the power group is sort of
Ascribing a nickname to a person
And there's always, it tends to be, not always
But tends to be a moment of like kind of mockery
That's based in truth a little bit, like it's sort of
A little bit funny, but it's based in truth
It always sort of connects, there's a dotted line to that
You know, so I can never figure out, even to this day
Why my 12-year-old soccer coach called me lanky
I can't figure out what the truth was
In there, I don't really know, that's weird
Anyway, so anyway, where was I going?
Now, nicknaming, you don't get to choose your own name
Right, you guys watch Seinfeld and you know, maybe you saw
George try to be called T-Bone and never really kind of panned out for him
The top-down method is how this works
Remember this, this is going to matter in a second
And there's always an element of sort of truth and mockery
That kind of goes with nicknaming, we know this stuff
Now, in Luke chapter 8, Jesus encounters a man
This man is what we would call demonized
He's possessed by a demon
And what you see with this man is he's naked, he's living in the tombs
He doesn't have a house, he's all by himself
Now, important side note, in our sort of secularized, late modern world
We have a tendency to do something when it comes to the idea of demonization
Or, you know, demon possession
A couple of different things
One of the things we tend to think, looking back into the Bible as we go
Look, they don't have sophisticated psychological analysis
Anytime anybody had something, sort of some sort of mental illness
They would just naturally ascribe it to demon
That's a lot of demon, that's what that is
And I just want to say, you might be right
But I also want to just propose something else
The Bible does talk about a spiritual dimension of reality
That is beyond even what we kind of know and experience on a regular, ongoing basis
And sort of are visible, or there's an unseen world of things that are happening
And I also want to say that mental illness is not necessarily demonic
People who suffer from mental illness aren't necessarily being demonized, so to speak
And yet there is still in the Bible this description of things
That where demons, spirit beings are at work against what God is trying to do
And here's what I just want to say
The one does not exclude the other
There is mental illness that they don't know how to diagnose back in the first century
And there is also demonic activity that's also at work
So I just want to make sure we're all clear on that
Are we okay moving forward with this?
Okay, good, here we go
Now, here's the scene, Luke 8, 26
They sailed to the regions of the Jeresians, which is across the lake from Galilee
This is in the northern part of Israel, there's two big lakes
There's the Sea of Galilee and then there's the Dead Sea
The Dead Sea is way bigger, but the Sea of Galilee is much more important
Because things live there
And on the opposite side of the lake, which literally sometimes is just called the other side
This is where people don't go very often
But when Jesus stepped ashore, he was met by a demon-possessed man from the town
For a long time this man had not worn clothes or lived in a house
But had lived in the tombs, this is going to come up again
This is this person who lives by himself, naked in the tombs
And this man runs up to Jesus
And when he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell at his feet shouting at the top of his voice
What's important to keep in mind
When you see this, and the story is also in Mark 5
You can read this story, and one of the things that's crucial when you see it
Is there's always this really difficult distinction between
It's hard to tell whether the demon is speaking or the guy is speaking
Who's talking here? Is the demon or is it the guy?
What I want you to see is I think that's kind of important to kind of keep it
It's important to like know that that is confusing sort of on purpose, okay, with me
Now, when he saw Jesus, he cried out and fell at his feet, shouting at the top of his voice
What do you want with me, Jesus, son of the Most High God?
I beg you, don't torture me
So this is such an interesting kind of encounter
Some scholars will say that this elaborate naming by this demon
Is an attempt to gain control over Jesus
Which of course fails miserably because he doesn't know rule number two
It's a top-down model, you can't, Jesus is over everything, you can't do this
This is what's going to be shown in a moment here
But there's this sort of crying out of Jesus' name as an attempt perhaps to gain control over him
Verse 29
For Jesus had commanded the impure spirit to come out of the man
This is what's sort of like an out-of-order sentence
Like the reason why this guy is saying this is because of this
So Luke is recording what happened
He's like the reason why this spirit is crying out to Jesus, don't torture us or whatever
Is because of this right here
For Jesus had commanded the impure spirit to come out of the man
And many times it had seized him and though he was chained hand and foot and kept under guard
He had broken his chains and had been driven by the demon into solitary places
Let's pause here for a second
So often what a flicks people drives them into isolation and loneliness
So often what a flicks people drives them to isolation and loneliness
It isn't that the man was like, oh man I feel like I got a thing
I got a ghost
It's that the thing itself drove him into the solitary places to be alone
Then Jesus asked him
What is your name?
Legion he replied because many demons had gone into him
The word legion to talk about a Roman legion is about roughly five to six thousand Roman soldiers
So the idea of this means that there's a ton of demonic activity in this particular person
What is your name?
The question that's being asked here is who's in charge
Things are out of control, Jesus steps in and he is clearly taking control of the moment
And Jesus doesn't need the name of the demon which is sort of to fly in the face of the whole idea here
The demon actually, and the demon gets no control over Jesus because of, you know, he's able to like name him
What's being said here is that there is in fact Jesus who is all, he is over the whole thing
And takes control of the moment
And then there's this tragic comic kind of thing that happens next
Is that the demon does get cast out, but it gets cast out into a herd of pigs
Which are nearby apparently
And then the pigs run into a lake and drown
That's the story, they're like, we're possessed!
And they drown, that's it, I mean that was a galloping pig by the way
If you guys are wondering, that's what galloping pigs look like
And they run away and they drown
Now, the question that you have, which is a fair question is
What does this have to do with anybody's anxiety?
Let me tell you, one of the things that happens in anxiety is this
One of the things that occurs in anxiety is that there tends to be a fusion, a linking and overlapping
Between the thing that's afflicting a person who suffers from anxiety or depression
And that person themselves, they make it their identity
It's one of the most tragic things that happens
One of the things that Amanda pointed out to me in her own anxiety journey
This is my wife, she said
I realized I had to stop just being, like I just sort of made my anxiety
I'm an anxious person, I'm just anxious, I'm always anxious, I'm anxious
She finally had to realize maybe that wasn't the way I was supposed
Maybe I wasn't made, God didn't make me anxious
This was something that was a problem that needed to be addressed
Fusing the two things together
Curtis Chang in his book, which I mentioned before
I think we have a couple of copies in the lobby if you want to read them
Or take one, borrow one, you can borrow one, you steal it, we'll know
No, just kidding, but if you want to borrow it, it's fine
But we have a couple, his book's great, but here's one of the things he says to this very effect
When we have been, notice the language, mentally abducted by anxiety for extended periods
I love the language
We identify so thoroughly with the anxious thoughts that our minds fuse with these thoughts
The more we rehearse an anxious narrative, the more we play it over and over and over
We talked about this last week, about ruminating, the more we rehearse an anxious narrative
The more we become indistinguishable from the narrative, whoa
The more we repeat the thing over and over in our heads
The more we become indistinguishable from that narrative
Such that we cannot abandon those thoughts
And this mental fusion can be so complete, we sometimes don't even recognize that we've been hijacked
In other words, when we start having anxious thoughts that we keep playing over and over and over again in our heads
And it starts to fuse with our identity, we have trouble differentiating
You can see where this is going, we need a way to separate our identity from the affliction that is upon us
And find a way to rein it in
So here's what we need to do
Name it
Name it
We have to call the thing, whatever the thing is, we have to call it what it is
So that we can separate it from ourselves
Here's what Curtis Chang says once again
When we can name our thoughts, we recognize them as distinct from us
Differentiation
We're meant to recognize our anxious thoughts as things that they may roam in our minds
But they're not us in our entirety, something distinct from us, differentiation
There's a critical difference between a thought present within us and a thought becoming us
When I named my anxious thoughts, he says, I began to experience a sense of authority over them
The more I could stand outside my anxious thoughts, observe them and label them
The more those thoughts began to lose their power to terrify
The more I watched those thoughts with detached observation and not engagement
And the more I said, oh, I recognize you, the more the anxious thoughts faded away
So let's call it what it is, we've got to name it
Got to name it
And the question you have, which is a fair question, is how do I name it?
I just feel like I'm freaking out, I don't know how to name this thing, what am I supposed to do with it?
And I just want to tell you, again, we're just going to look at kind of, this is the very beginning stages of stuff
But let's just talk about this for a moment
One of the most helpful ways to figure out where you might have anxiety is to do this, is to find where there is friction in your life
Where are things not going smoothly? Where's their friction?
In other words, take it a different way
Can you identify a pattern in your life where you're regularly agitated, afraid, etc.
Where there's probably a disproportionate response to a particular thing?
For instance, if you're going through Del Taco and you're like, they gave you the wrong hot sauce
And you're like, that's a bummer, they gave me the wrong hot sauce, I want a del scorcho
And they gave me regular old lame hot sauce
And you're like, that's a bummer, that's an appropriate response
If you're like, they didn't give me del scorcho, I'm burning the place down
By the way, that's a serious offense when you don't get del scorcho
Okay, but I'm just saying that there's a moment where you're like, my response should be a two, but it feels like it's a twelve
This is probably where you're going, maybe there's something in here where I'm trying to figure out what's going on here
There's a pattern where I'm overreacting, it should be a two and I'm giving it a twelve out of ten
Something's a problem here and there's different triggering events for all of us
And they're all different kinds of scales
For me, confession, okay
I have to be very, very careful
Anytime I'm in any kind of competition with my children
Because there's a part of me, and I've told you guys this before, if you're with us last week, I said
The thing that I've been naming recently over the course of my life is that what's been chasing me is this right here
Being a disappointment and being irrelevant, these are the things that come up with
Now, in a competition, anytime you can seem incompetent or be a loser
Not just lose, but be a loser
It's right into this stuff
So, I have a level of intensity with my own kids in competition
Which is really, I have to measure, and some things I can't do
Whether it's like, doing things that's like an activity we do together, like surfing
It's like, my kids are all better surfers than me by a long shot
But I'm like, you know, I just, I'm frustrated that I'm not as good as they are
They're in there, like, my oldest is twenty
He lives, like, it goes to school right next to the beach
He surfs constantly, he goes to school in a wetsuit sometimes
I'm like, what is wrong with the world?
Anyway, but he does that, he's awesome
And my other kids are incredible, all the things they do
And I'm like, I'm out, and it's like, I'm making it a competition and I have to win
We're playing cards, we're playing horse, and how much does it matter if I'm like
Playing horse with my son, how important is it that I win?
Crucial is the answer to that question
But it should be a two, and it's a twelve, why does it matter?
I have to be very careful with these things
Where's their friction, name it, you have to find some of the friction
It's probably one of the most helpful things you can do
But there's another layer to this, and this is where it gets even a little bit more difficult
And it's nonetheless crucial, and by the way, I have to apologize in advance
Before I give you this, I'm going to show you it in a second
It rhymes, okay?
And I always am afraid when it rhymes, like, oh gosh
We just packaged this up in a little neat little thing
And there's probably a little tiny little, if you look closely
A little TM on the top right of the circle around it, like trademark
There's nothing, I just want to make sure, I want you to make sure you remember it
But for those of you guys that have a high, like really sensitive cheese meter
This is going to set you off, okay?
It's very cheesy, but it's really crucial, okay?
So bear with me, okay? You guys ready for that?
I think you can handle this, okay?
So not only are we finding the friction, where is there this ongoing sort of pattern
Where I'm overreacting to certain things
But bear with me, probably what is more crucial than that
Is to find the fiction behind the friction
I do not appreciate that, sir
Because behind every single anxiety is a perfect lie
Behind every anxiety that we feel is a near perfect lie
Like, wow, that makes so much sense that I would have anxiety about a particular thing
And the thing that people, it may not be you, but people that are around you
That might suffer from anxiety, they're believing a particular lie
That's being rehearsed over and over again in their head
And it's nearly perfect, and the question we have to ask
Which is a very courageous question, which may require actual therapy
You might have to go to a person who can help you uncover this stuff
But the point is, there is 99%
I'm going to go 100%, okay?
There's a fiction behind this friction which is causing you anxiety
There is a perfect lie behind it
And to ask the question, where is the lie that's fueling this kind of anxiety is crucial
Behind the anxiety is a particular lie
I've showed you kind of my own thing that's chasing me down, and it's a lie
Let me give you some things to think about
If you're having trouble kind of identifying it, this is not going to answer every question
But maybe some of these you might connect with, okay?
Here
If blank happens, it means I've lost control
And when I lose control, the whole world goes at just whatever
I have to be in control
And if something happens, it means I've lost control
It could be any number of things for you, it can be small, and it can be big
It can be I'm late for dropping my kids off for school, I'm late for picking my...
It could be I'm late for school, it could be if I screw up a homework assignment that I'm supposed to turn in
It could be if I don't connect with these people, if I mess up my own
If I don't get on Instagram enough times, or I don't see these things, it means I've lost control
Some of you might have this scenario, there won't be enough
I know what will happen, there's just not going to be enough blank
Filling whatever you want there
Money, attention, affection, love
I know that if I say yes to this now, then there won't be enough later
Or if this person says yes to this in my life
There's only a certain, there's like a pie of the amount of whatever it is that I need
And if they take a slice, it's going to be one less thing available for me, or for anybody else
Or just won't be enough of whatever it is
You can, maybe that's you
Some of you have this, if I can't blank well, whatever it is
I'll be alone
If I can't do well as a student, if I don't perform well at my job
If I'm not a good friend, if I don't appear wonderful, if I don't do beauty well
If I don't do personal health and fitness well
If I don't do living the California life well, then I'll be all alone and people won't want me
That may be you
Some people have this one, it just connects with a lot of people
Things are going so great, but now what?
Like I know everything's awesome, but that only means there's an impending doom right around the corner
I feel like things are going great, my friendships are great
Maybe you're single and you've got all your crew of friends, you're like, we're getting along great
And we have this community of people that we get to be around and it's so amazing
It's all going to go, something's going to happen immediately
Maybe you're a person who's got a mom group and you're all hanging out
Things are incredible, you've got your kids and your marriages are incredible
And you're like, it's a matter of time before everything goes away
There's going to be disease, there's going to be a volcano, there's going to be something that swallows us up
We're all going to die, I just know it
There'll be a puddle on the way to church, I mean, you never know
A lot of people have this, things are going great, but they can't forever
Just waiting for the house of cards to fall
That's an anxiety
Some people have this, that there's a sense that I'll never be understood no matter what I do
However, I try to communicate who I am, I'll never be fully understood
Which is a matter of being not loved and being alone
Once again, I just cannot be an understood person
And this is leaving me in a particular kind of anxious state
Some people have this
What if I or we never get through blank?
We're a tough patch in our marriage
I'm in a deep spot of loneliness in my own life
I want to meet Mr. Wright, I want to meet Mrs. Wright
I want to be around these people
But I'm in this tough spot of loneliness and I can't get through it
What if we never get through it?
What if the tough spot of my marriage or the disease or the illness, I never get through it?
What if that never happens?
I'm just preparing myself to never get through because I don't see the light at the end of the tunnel
So what if I never get through it?
All of these things generate all kinds of fiction behind the things that we're worried about
And they generate for us a kind of anxiety about this stuff
And for some of you, it may not be you
Like I said, you may not be the person who's got anxiety
You may have a high tolerance for uncertainty and all that kind of stuff
But you probably live with people and you're like, why are they reacting like a 12 when it should be a 2?
Because there's probably a fiction behind it that's generating that sort of thing
Now, what do we do with that?
Now, this is really important
What we do with that depends really crucially on your own impression of how you perceive Jesus
Some of you are like, look, I'm okay with Jesus that came because you're talking about anxiety and some cool stuff
But I just want to tell you, there's a dimension that we're going to talk about here
Which is so important to understanding what it is to walk with Jesus
Because there's a spiritual dimension to faith
It is not just practical help for all these kinds of things
You go to lots of places to get that
And we're okay with that, by the way
We're a church, we're kind of okay with Jesus
But I want to try to give you a sense of what we talk about next
That's going to push this a little further
And I think it's probably, for some of you, maybe like an invitation to step into something you've not yet considered
But here's what I want to do
Remember, when you look back at the story of Jesus with this demonized person
This man who's naked in the tombs
It's Jesus who extracts the name of the demon
Jesus doesn't need the name to be able to take control, which is really important to keep in mind
But Jesus extracts the name of the demon, the demon says his own name, Legion
The guy doesn't do it
The demon's the one who drove him into isolation
He's the demon, he's the naked demon guy living in the tombs
Doesn't live at home anymore
And even the guy couldn't name the thing
Jesus has to draw it out of this person
And maybe for you when it comes to naming some of this stuff
You actually need some supernatural assistance to do it
You actually need this
This is what Jesus really can do
And the inner stuff, all this stuff, it's hard
It requires courage and humility
And this is perhaps an invitation for us to consider today
Let's go back to Philippians 4, 6 and 7
Do not be anxious about anything
But in every situation by prayer and petition with Thanksgiving
Present your request to God
And the peace of God which transcends all understanding
Will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus
What's so crucial to keep in mind is
Every anxious person loves the second part of that
The peace of God which transcends understanding
We all want that
Even if you're not an anxious person, you're like, that sounds great
The peace of God which is beyond even my own understanding
I want that
But what I want to do today is this
During everything in mind
I want to focus on this part of that verse
Prayer and petition
When most of us think about prayer
We think about petition
Which is asking for a particular thing
Petition means I'm asking for a particular thing
The language of petition is in the First Amendment
The right to petition the government is part of what's in there
Like that actually gets to ask for a particular thing
To make something, to make a request, a formal request of a thing
Which is part of what's being described here
In fact, even it says, make your request known to God
But there's also something else there
It says prayer and petition
Which they're under the same umbrella
But there's something different about the two things
Which is worth thinking about
Because for a lot of us, all we think about is prayer
Is while I ask God for stuff and then hope he delivers
And I'm ready for a couple different answers
You know, like maybe you heard that growing up
It's like, yes, you can have what you want, no you can't
Or you just have to wait around a little while
It's like, that's all we know about prayer
I don't want to say that there's a beautiful part to that
But I just want to kind of expand it a little bit broader than that
Because maybe in prayer what we get to do
Is to seek God to do something that's beyond asking him for stuff
Or to just simply solve a thing
One of the things we get to do in prayer
Is actually to ask God to reveal something to us, about us
Which means we're not asking, we're just listening in effect
Here's what the Psalmist writes in Psalm 139
These famous words, search me God and know my heart
Test me and know my anxious thoughts
See if there is any offensive
Some translations have the word hurtful way in me
And lead me in the way everlasting
Like there is some way through the anxiety
To be led in an everlasting and eternal kind of life
Not just forever, like someday far away
But right now in the present
To say it differently, again, another rhyming thing
Please buckle your seatbelt, I apologize
Please read this, okay, stay with me
All healing, whether it's like a medical
Like you broke your foot, you got an ear infection
You got a heart condition, all healing begins with revealing
We have to sort of come to grips with the thing that we're facing
So that it can be addressed
This is part of the naming process, right
And it's scary because we have to see it for what it is
So here's what I'm going to do, I'm going to give you a prayer
It is a two-word prayer, you can practice it whenever you want
However you want, I'm going to give you a rundown
On how to do it right now in a second
But it's a two-word prayer that requires some courage
And it's different for a lot of you than maybe you haven't yet understood what prayer is
And here's what it looks like, you ready?
Search me
Search me
There's something that needs to be revealed to me
That I can't find on my own to be named
So that I can differentiate it from myself
And I need God to reveal it in me
With tenderness, with care, not with shame
Not with condemnation, but with love
That gets drawn out
So, that in mind
Let's pray
I'm going to give you a moment, just as your eyes are closed
To sit in the stillness of this
If there is a contrast between the loudness
And the voices of anxiety, it must be stillness
And silence
Jesus
Search me
Search me
Jesus that I might find where there's friction
Search me, Jesus, that I might find where there's friction.
Search me, Jesus, to uncover the lie, the fiction that's undergirding that friction.
When I can't name them, will you name them, my anxious thoughts, Jesus?
Will you lead me in the way everlasting?
Father, would you hear us now as we just simply say in our own response to you in the stillness that we are so rarely do we find it in our lives?
Would you hear your name?
The name that rescues, that breaks through into the darkness, Jesus.
Jesus.
It is in your name that we pray, Jesus.
Amen.
Let it break, and your name still, call the seed of still, the rage and need of still, every way.
And your name, Jesus, Jesus.
You make the darkness tremble, Jesus, Jesus.
You silence fear, Jesus, Jesus.
You make the darkness tremble, Jesus, Jesus.
We call these bones to live, and call these lungs to sing once again.
I will praise Jesus, Jesus.
You make the darkness tremble, Jesus, Jesus.
You silence fear, Jesus, Jesus.
You make the darkness tremble, Jesus, Jesus.
Jesus, Jesus.
You make the darkness tremble, Jesus, Jesus.
You silence fear, Jesus, Jesus.
You make the darkness tremble, Jesus, Jesus.
Jesus, Jesus.
You make the darkness tremble, Jesus, Jesus.
You silence fear, Jesus, Jesus.
You make the darkness tremble, Jesus, Jesus.
Would you do this? Would you just stand together?
One of the things that, you probably heard me say this before, if you've been around, which is when we're singing, we're setting our collective prayer to music.
That's all we're doing.
And there's some real power in the prayer of people being uttered at the same time, in the same place.
There's something that happens in that, and I don't know how to explain it, I just know that it does.
And so all I want us to do is to maybe just to raise a little bit of our voices, to sing that one more time together, and then I'll close out our time.
So would you lead us in that?
We sing Jesus, Jesus.
You make the darkness tremble, Jesus, Jesus.
You silence fear, Jesus, Jesus.
You make the darkness tremble, Jesus, Jesus.
Would you hold out your hands and would you just receive this blessing?
Where there is darkness that needs to tremble, you can call in the name of Jesus.
Might you experience the light that he intends to bring into the darkness of anxiety and depression and loneliness and isolation?
May you have the courage to utter the phrase this week to God, search me and know my anxious thoughts.
See if there's a hurtful way inside of me and lead me in the way everlasting.
Whatever you're up against, may you know, may it be conferred upon you the love of the Father, the grace of the Son, and the fellowship and comfort of the Holy Spirit in Jesus' name.
So good to be with you. Amen.
So great to be together. We'll see you guys later.
