our new series the truth about honesty all right hey everybody what's going on
okay great to be with you guys those of you guys who are new i'm glad that you decided to join us
today a lot of places you could be especially because you got an extra hour of sleep i remember
by the way uh when i had little kids and people were like isn't it so great we get an extra hour
of sleep and i was like someone tell my eight month old baby that this is what's happening
and i know if those of you guys are like parents of young kids you're like nothing really magical
happened they still woke up and it was just four in the morning as opposed to five and that's real
wonderful for us uh in any event i'm glad that you guys made it my name is jeff i'm one of the
pastors here grateful to have you guys with us if you're new with us a lot of new people today a lot
of people um by the way the church has a kind of if you're new we kind of the the sort of i don't
know culture here is that we kind of are we don't believe jesus is a secret we're supposed to keep
that if people want to know about him we invite people to come check it out make their own
decision for jesus you know kind of on their own opinion we don't you know so anyway it's not a
secret club where we have like special handshakes and little little passwords or whatever it's just
like you want to come in and make a decision about jesus
that's always our hope is that people get an invitation to do that and so if you're wondering
kind of who we are this group of people does not have all the answers we are not the ones who have
figured it out we're people who are journeying towards jesus we believe that's what we were
convinced that's what we were made for is life with jesus but we also know that life kind of
pursuit in pursuit of jesus doesn't always go in a straight line and we trip over ourselves and we
kind of you know we hurt ourselves and hurt other people and we kind of need each other to pick each
other up and kind of redirect ourselves toward jesus again and so if you're looking for a place
where everybody's kind of got all the answers and figured it out i just want to let you know
prepare to be disappointed by us we are not those people but we do believe that we are made for life
with jesus and so whether you're online or outside in the tent watching with us we're just grateful
that you're here and however you might have tuned in i actually just i just got back um i was i took
a group of people from our church we went through kind of some ancient sort of early church sites
we were in turkey and we were in greece and then we were in rome as well it was incredible and
here's what i learned having taken this group of people on a trip for three you know two two weeks
or so what i learned is that no matter how old a group of people is that they're going to be
on a trip every single thing in the church is always junior high ministry it is like who's got
their bus buddy everybody got your bus buddy who's got their bus buddy hey you guys we're not we're
not looking at that right now come back over here come on and people are like look something shiny
and they walk over and say come on come on back here we're all going and we're like you know we're
all waving so make sure we get on the bus we're all at dinner let's everybody count it was the
same it's the same stuff people's energy is like kind of waning a little bit okay let's do a game
i mean these are all people who are like you know not junior high age let's just put it that way and
it's still it's still the same thing it was unbelievable
great trip a lot of like all the stuff that you hope happens in people's lives
in terms of connecting relationships also kind of next steps with jesus powerful moments of
reflection on their own life all that happened and it was really really great it's a great
blessing to do it it's really really fun i'm glad to be back as well but i also gotta tell you too
there's some things i want to let you know as we come back into stuff i want to let you know if
again this is for people this is your home church this is like you love this church it's your church
community um you've been here for a while you call it home if you call harbor point home i just want
to give you some information and you can respond to it and i'll see you next time
however you want but i just want to let you know as we're looking at the last quarter of our kind
of calendar year um just want to let you know where we are as a budget all that kind of stuff
we're about 15 behind where we expect it to be we're not exactly where we expect it to be 15
significant but it's not insurmountable and my commitment to you is to let you know where we are
because this is our church and i owe it to you to tell you kind of where we are and however it is
that you want to decide want to sort of step in and respond that's up to you you can respond
accordingly with that and um you know i just want to you know we always want to make sure that we're
clear about what's going on but it's information and you get to decide what you want to do and
what you want to do with that we believe in faith that god is continuing to work through our you
know through our people through our volunteers through so many things we have roughly looking
year over year we have about 300 more people per weekend than we did last year but we're also about
15 behind and so it's okay we're just gonna we're gonna figure this out and you know you get to
respond however you'd like and that's just me giving you the information so you can decide what
you want to do cool everybody cool with that okay good now let's get right to it we have a series
we're gonna start today and i just need i need a little bit of feedback though as we do it so
let me ask you on
of the most practical but not deep serious painful ways just basically practical stuff
what are some lies that we're generally okay telling each other like they're kind of like
we kind of have to tell them a little bit they kind of go on and on lies we're kind of okay
telling people we're kind of around a lot not the big serious ones but like little ones we kind of
we're a little bit fibby so to speak anybody know i'm talking about give an example
no that doesn't those genes they don't make you look fat
i remember and i told this story and i you know i before some of you have heard this story and you
know i remember i remember one time i was like this is a couple years ago i told my wife i go
oh my gosh i mean you still got it the tight jeans look great on you
these are my fat jeans
i mean i was i was like oh my gosh i'm trying to do that she's like they're supposed to be
loose you know thanks a lot i'm burning these i was like oh god i'm trying to do that she's like
gosh i'm the i can't win you know all right what else other other sort of lies were most people are
okay kind of telling every so often what else that was the only one that was the one lie everything
else we're not okay with anything else i'm fine yeah i'm fine it's a big one i'm fine i'm not
panicking you're panicking i'm always panicking you're anxious i'm not anxious you're i'm fine
i'm totally fine we're all fine here we're fine i'm fine right good what else i'm busy
can't get there i'm busy i gotta get to this level real quick and then we'll make sure we're
what else
wait wait start what's yours i don't have a problem you do okay
yeah yeah that's that's something i've i've never really tried in
my marriage i'm a little afraid of doing that uh what about you someone else said something
i know where i'm going i'm not lost what does apple maps know anyways they don't know i know
where i'm going and you don't know where i'm going i don't know where i'm going i don't know where i'm
going right yeah there's that stuff there's also this one some of you have maybe tried this before
you're running a little bit late i'm on my way and a little bit wait mean a little bit late means i
haven't even left yet a little bit late means i forgot about the meeting i'm on my way means i'm
just about to get into the shower and get showered up and get ready to go there some of you have
tried this one before which of course you know you've been pulled over and the officer says do
you know why i pulled you over i have no idea why you pulled me over i thought 85 was perfectly
cool zone obviously how about this one no i do not watch the bachelor
what a horrible person would ever watch that show of course there's that too but it makes you wonder
at least to a certain extent how do you know when someone's being honest with you and and how do
they know when you're being honest with them and probably more importantly how do you know when
you're being honest with you because every single one of us has had at some point we've had some
moment we've like am i kidding myself with this is this sort of is this really actually happening
we've all had that too
well let's start at least this series by defining a couple of terms let's start with the idea of
truth now the idea of what is truth is like the biggest philosophical question that goes back
eons people have tried to solve this problem this is not my moment in the sun to give you
the like definition of what that is i just needed a practical handle for what we're talking about
during the next couple of weeks but here is the super deep definition of what truth is ready here
it is truth is what actually is all it is it's just saying it's just reality truth is reality
truth is what actually is and when it comes to honesty it's not just reality it's not just
we're talking about honesty honest honesty is simply the accurate representation of what is
it's the retelling of reality and the closer to reality that we are the more honest that we're
being again if truth is just what actually is it's reality and honesty is the retelling of the
accurate representation of that reality then that's all that we're doing honesty is then sort
of this closer to reality the more honest we're being we all value honesty we have high esteem
for it i mean right now even in the sort of the i don't know if you knew there's like an election
coming up a lot of people don't know that but it's the truth it's the truth it's the truth it's the
truth i don't know that there's a big election coming up i don't know if you heard that but like
we talk about and even the rival candidates always accuse the other of lying and honesty is such
incredibly important value and but the truth is that every single one of us lies a little all the
time as we just talked about doctors know this when you come into the doctor's office and you
have to fill out the form that says how often how many drinks do you have per week you're always
like what should i really tell they always double it i just want you to know whatever you're writing
they double it you're like oh once a year i went to another church where they have like wine in
like one time i did that and they're like you know that kind of thing you have that sort of
scenario they also do the opposite too and you know they ask you how many times a week do you
exercise by the way they've just taken your blood pressure they know your heart rate you're like i
went six times a week i'm training for a triathlon they're like you're resting heart rates a hundred
and five either you're really nervous or you're lying and so they just cut that in half they just
know what to do with that but we all lie to a certain extent we lie for a couple different
reasons we lie to hide our weaknesses and we lie to gain an advantage and sometimes we lie to avoid
pain i mean all of us do it at some point at least to a certain we allow ourselves that room to do it
and we also lie probably at least as we're talking about in this particular context for this series
and i get someone called me up there's other reasons why we lie last service i know i get
there's i just just for the general sense and the bell curve of the reasons and our all of our sort
of ways of living this is kind of where we lie we lie to hide weaknesses and gain advantage and
avoid discomfort and pain but we also lie to preserve relationships this is what goes into
relationships we really are in betweenmern and rey kane and the near НадAL we lie to that
this is because of our spirit so and a lot of of this is we're dying long enough just to lose
everything but when it's we're dying young we're dying faster we're dying faster we're dying in
time like ksc how about you guys are theatori how you think life is to you know possibly a few
years autonomous or something something outside of the boundaries of the world is it just to live
according to your way to life right like it's all about how well you live it's not the level of the
worldwide value we didn't think about these people in a more realistic sort of a sense of the scale so
else know this then all the stuff that i have outside of me to protect me and insulate me from
them ever knowing it all of a sudden now they know and i'm unprotected and what if they don't want me
or what if they harm me or what if i'm unlovable and if i tell them i can see what's going on in
you or i've actually there's something in you that i know or about then what happens to them
does that compromise a relationship because they're unprotected and all of a sudden
there's two vulnerable people who are insecure about being involved being vulnerable and all
of a sudden it starts to unwind the relationship starts to unwind and so we don't tell the truth
also in the spirit of being honest which let's be clear the spirit of being honest
we've had some pretty uncaring people who have told us the truth in the spirit of truth telling
hey i just want to tell you the truth and it felt more so like it was a self-righteous sort
of bludgeoning by a blunt object than by actual kind of an actual honesty it felt like
self-righteousness like i need to tell you this and their intent was actually it seemed like to
harm so we've all been in those situations and so what happens in the most bizarre way
in the most in the strangest way in a bizarre way because we're trying to preserve relationships
more often than not lying actually becomes an indicator of how you know i'm kind of a good
person because i wouldn't want to harm you i don't want to harm i don't want we don't need to do this
so lying becomes a way to actually prove to you that you know i'm a good person so like most
things and we talk about this i go to this most things that we talk about this like most vices
most vices tend to have a short-term payoff and a long-term pain so we're dishonest dishonesty
like it's short-term payoff long-term pain i don't want to deal with what things look like
right now there might be some pain i don't want to deal with what things look like right now there
might be some pain um so like this thing called and stolen ego there might be a long-term pain um but just
yeah another Weight Loss Și's review in Northnor transcription link in the description below if you ate more than a
Right now, there might be some pain in the distance,
but right now, I just can't deal with it right now,
so we kind of don't tell the truth.
Where honesty, like all virtues then,
has a long-term payoff and a short-term pain.
It may hurt right now, but in the long run,
this seems to be where we want to go.
Now, here's a mature person on the subject in the Bible.
This is Psalm 141.
Just notice this.
Notice the maturity of this person.
I wish I was them.
Let a righteous man strike me.
That's a kindness.
Let him rebuke me.
That is to say a kind of correction.
That's oil on my head.
The term oil on my head is a description of being blessed.
Let a righteous man strike me.
That's a kindness.
Let him rebuke me.
That's oil on my head, a blessing.
And to that, I say, no, thank you.
I don't want that.
I'm not that courageous.
I just go ahead and keep on keeping things a little more
on the flattery side of things.
That's way better.
Some of you have felt like, I think Jeff would want this.
I'm going to email him and let him know
what I really think about things.
And I just want to let you know, I'm not this mature.
So if you have things that you want to share with me
that you think I would enjoy them,
save them.
But anyways.
But we have a complicated relationship with honesty.
We really do.
I mean, over the next few weeks,
we're going to talk about the truth about honesty.
But we know this to be true.
Hard truths are always hard.
There's never a time where a hard truth is like,
that was wonderful and sweet and kind and beautiful.
And it was like, it always feels a little bit tough,
especially in relationships.
Because it's hard to tell people the hard truth
about themselves or about us.
And we resort to lying because of a simple economic
sort of cost-benefit analysis.
And the economics of lying goes like this.
What do I stand to gain
by not telling the truth?
What's the probability that I'm going to get caught?
And then what's the punishment if I do get caught?
And if at some level we can kind of make peace
with what I stand to gain versus what I might lose
versus the chances I'm actually going to get caught,
if we can make peace with those things,
then we'll kind of go, it's all right.
I give myself permission to kind of fudge it a little bit.
We do it all the time.
And the fudgy sort of balance, so to speak,
goes like this.
If I can live with myself,
if I can look myself in the mirror and go,
this is probably okay.
I'm still kind of at least reasonably a good person.
You know, whatever that is,
whatever that means.
If I can live with myself and the harm is not obvious,
then maybe I'm okay just sort of not necessarily
telling someone or dealing with the hard truth.
I learned a word this week.
I was listening to a podcast.
Actually, that's why I got the name for this series
called The Truth About Honesty.
And in it, they describe a word that I'm like,
oh my gosh, I'm an expert in this.
And this is what, for those of you who are like,
listen, I'm not a liar.
I don't tell lies.
But maybe what you do, which again, this is me,
and I'm not saying this is you for sure,
but I just, there's a term describing the idea
of not telling a lie,
but also sort of dodging a little bit.
It's called paltering.
Paltering.
It is the use of partial truths
to avoid confrontation or discomfort.
In other words, it's like saying,
look, I'm not directly lying to you.
Like everything I've said is actually technically
falls into the category of not untrue.
You know what I'm saying?
But it's also not exactly telling the truth either.
So we can always, if you're a person like this,
which is me, if you're a person like this,
it's like, yeah, yeah, I navigated around
the moral sort of hazard here of trying to figure out
when did I cross a line at actually doing a thing,
but yes, I was able to deceive
without ever actually telling an untruth.
Success.
Paltering.
Who wants to, no, just kidding.
No, but this is how all of us sort of do this.
All of us sort of have a little bit of this in our lives,
at least because we don't want to be a person who's lying,
but we also don't want to harm anybody
with this really hard, the cold, hard truth.
University of Chicago did a study on this.
University School of Business, actually,
Chicago School of Business did a study on this.
Here's what they found.
People significantly overestimate
the cost of honest conversations.
Notice the economic,
language.
People significantly overestimate
the cost of honesty,
is what's being said here.
We imagine this is going to be painful.
If I say this, it's gonna,
there's no way this doesn't,
it's like this is going to hurt no matter what I do.
Turns out we overestimate it.
We're often reluctant to have
completely honest conversations with others,
says Professor Emma Levine.
We think offering critical feedback
or opening up about our secrets
will be uncomfortable for both us
and the people with whom we are talking.
The researchers conclude
that such fears,
are often misguided.
So they do all this research and they go,
we're way overestimating how hard it's gonna be
to have an honest conversation.
In one field experiment,
participants were instructed to be completely honest
with everyone in their lives for three days.
Now let me just stop right here for a second.
Some of us heard, oh my gosh, three days,
I have to be honest for three days?
I can't possibly do that.
And the rest of us heard,
it's only three days?
Like that's all, that's the bar.
That's what I have to do,
is to try to be honest for three days.
The point is, and I don't know the whole,
all the research.
The point is,
I'm not gonna share the summary of the research.
The point is that three days was enough to prove the point.
You and I, the story is like, listen,
whatever happens, be completely honest for three days
and see what happens.
Some of us are terrified by that idea.
Some of us are like, give me more days.
But in either event, here's what happens.
They're instructed to be honest,
completely honest for three days.
Individuals expected honesty to be less pleasant
and less socially connecting than it actually is.
And taken together, these findings suggest
that individual's avoidance of honesty
may be a mistake, the researchers, right?
By avoiding honesty,
individuals miss out on opportunities
that they appreciate in the long run
and that they would want to repeat.
So they have these people being honest with each other
for three days and what they discover is,
this is way better than we thought.
It's actually way more helpful
and it's less painful than we ever imagined,
meaning the cost of being honest
is much lower than we thought.
Not surprisingly, the Bible will actually reiterate
this point.
Here's Proverbs 28, verse 23.
Whoever rebukes, that is to say,
an honest critique, correction of a person,
will in the end gain favor rather than one who has
a flattering tongue.
One who is a person willing to tell another person
the truth will in the end gain favor,
which is what we all want,
rather than one who has a flattering tongue.
Because we tell ourselves, look, I don't wanna hurt anybody.
I'm not trying to hurt anybody else.
I don't wanna cause them pain or discomfort,
but what it turns out to be is that the truth is this.
This is mostly about us and not about them.
We don't wanna hurt them, but this is really about us.
It's not about them.
It's really about us protecting us.
And what we find out over time is that the short-term
benefits of avoiding the truth always come at the expense
of the relationships we are trying to preserve.
In the long run, when we are trying to preserve
a relationship by avoiding the truth,
it's always that relationship that suffers in the long run.
The short-term benefits of avoiding the truth
always come at the expense of the relationships
we are trying to preserve.
Now, Jesus will talk about a subject.
And this is really important.
He talks about a subject that feels only sort of loosely related to the topic.
And I wanna show you it.
But it's important to kind of capture it.
Because when we get it, it's actually crucial for understanding
the whole truth about honesty kind of conversation that we're in.
So here's what he says.
Matthew 5, 33.
Which is, by the way, as I go to Matthew chapter 5, before I do that.
Matthew 5 is in the, it's Matthew 5 through 7 is a collection of sermons,
you know, by Jesus called the Sermon on the Mount.
And the very beginning of it, he just, this is like the beginning of, it's Matthew 5, 6, and 7.
And the very beginning of it, he just, this is like the beginning of, it's Matthew 5, 6, and 7.
And the very beginning of it, he just, this is like the beginning of, it's Matthew 5, 6, and 7.
You can read it.
In fact, it's really helpful.
It's actually, you're trying to get your mind right around even an election standpoint.
Like, how am I gonna, what's the kingdom of God kind of look like the way Jesus talks about it?
It's these chapters.
So when you're looking at it, you know, just go ahead and read it, look at it, whatever.
The beginning of it is where he talks about this particular thing.
Matthew chapter 5.
Here it is in the Sermon on the Mount, verse 33.
Again, you've heard it said to the people long ago,
don't break your oath, but fulfill to the Lord the vows you have made.
Now, it's a typical Jesus sort of speaking device.
What he'll do is like, he'll go, you've heard it said this way.
And sometimes what he'll talk about is he'll talk about what's, you know,
oral tradition of people who have kind of passed down for generations.
In some cases, he'll talk about the actual Hebrew scriptures, the Bible,
we call the Old Testament.
And here he's like, look, you've heard it said long ago,
don't break your oath, but fulfill to the Lord the vows you have made.
In the Hebrew scriptures, a couple different times, you have this idea.
People are making vows.
That is to say, they're gonna go like, look, I promise I'm gonna do a thing.
I swear it on the Lord's name, I'm gonna make this happen.
And the emphasis in the Hebrew scripture
is let's just make sure you do it.
If you're gonna say that, stick to it.
That's the point.
So here's what he's saying.
Look, you've heard, but fulfill, you know, don't break your oath, but
fulfill to the Lord the vows you have made.
But I tell you, don't swear an oath at all.
So he's like, you don't even need that.
And then he goes on, either by heaven, for it's God's throne, or by the earth,
for it's his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it's the city of the great king.
And do not swear by your head, for you can't even make one hair white or black.
Now, notice this.
Well, you have this sort of diminishing levels of greatness of things that are
being described here, right?
Heaven, earth, city, your own head.
You with me?
Like, it's sort of diminishing.
And the idea that scholars will tell us is what's happening is that people in this
conversation are actually, what's happening in the, in sort of typical sort
of, you know, activity and relationships.
People are actually trying to swear an oath by things that are less than God.
Because what they're actually doing as they swear by things that are diminishing
by comparison to God, they're actually giving themselves a reason to also
diminish the consequences if they don't stick to it.
Which means people are looking for
a way to swear.
Swear by things and give themselves a loophole to get out of it.
And this is what Jesus is kind of addressing here.
So he goes through all, you can, not God, but heaven.
Not heaven, but the earth.
Not earth, but the city.
Not, not the city, but my own head.
He's like, this is all kind of trying to find a way to give yourself a loophole to get out
of actually keeping your oath.
And so sit, instead he says, verse 37, all you need to say is simply yes or no.
Or in some translations, let your yes be yes and your no be no.
Anything beyond this comes from the evil one.
Anything beyond this comes from the evil one.
Now, what this is saying is this, to kind of summarize the idea here.
Jesus is saying, by taking an oath, by saying, look, I swear I'm telling you the truth or
I'm going to do a thing.
What you're essentially saying is, ordinarily, I'm an untrustworthy liar.
But now because I've said this oath, you can trust what I'm saying.
Usually I lie, but now I swear you can trust me.
I'm typically a liar, but now you can trust me.
He's like, there's a problem with this idea of thinking.
Usually I lie, but now you can trust me because I just swore on heaven or by my own head or
by the Lord's name or whatever.
He's like, maybe there's another way to do this.
In other words, when we talk about this, Jesus is simply saying, be the kind of person, be
the kind of person who is so well acquainted with truth and honesty that oath making is
not necessary at all.
By a track record over the course of your life, be the kind of person who does what
they say they're going to do.
Who doesn't do what they say they're not going to do.
Who doesn't do what they say they're not going to do.
Who doesn't do what they say they're not going to do.
Have a kind of integrity in the way that you are as the kind of person that you are that
you don't have to like double underline it.
Like I swear, I'm actually going to do a thing.
Be the kind of person who's so well acquainted with truth and honesty that oath making is
no longer necessary.
Now you see how this ties together, be the kind of person that this is for truth and
honesty is kind of the way you operate.
Now as we kind of talk about this, there's a lot of dimensions to this conversation and
there's a lot of ways this could go and I get, there's all, people are going to come
up with exceptions to the rule and I just would say in most cases the exception proves
the rule.
But we know that in polite society a sort of fudge factor is kind of the norm of how
we operate, especially if you're from California.
Other parts of the country, other parts of the world, they don't do this the same way
we do.
But Southern California, oops, Southern California folks do this all the time.
We kind of have a little bit of a like, we have to be soft and gentle with each other.
And so at some point though, we need to tell people we love what they need to hear about
us.
And we need to know, we need, the people we love, they need to hear what's true about
them as well.
And that thing that's between us, that obstacle to the relationship, whatever it might be,
addressing it is hard.
It's hard.
It's hard for us and it's hard for them.
If we got to tell them something that's difficult about us, we're worried about it and it's
hard for us to do it.
And if we have to tell them something that's hard to confront them about, a truth about
them, their discomfort is awful.
And so we kind of let it go.
But refusing to address it ensures that it stays.
And here's what I do.
When I'm encountering this situation, I'm a person, and now granted, some people I'm
great at having a confrontational truth conversation, hard truth conversation with, and with other
people not so much at all.
But in the moments with the people I care most about, more often than not, I tend to
be a person who actually retreats.
And here's what happens to me.
I don't really want to address it, so I ensure that it's there.
And here's what happens to me.
I generally get bitter about the other person not seeing the thing that's in their life.
Like, how do they live with themselves?
How can they not see this?
And I'm not going to tell them about it, but how can they not recognize this?
What kind of a person are they?
They don't see this is going on in their life.
And then, not only am I bitter at them about it, then I get kind of swelled up with a little
bit of self-righteousness because I'm enduring it.
You know, I'm so patient and persevering.
I put up with this other human being who doesn't even recognize what's going on in their life.
And all of a sudden, I'm wonderful.
I'm bitter at them.
And what's happening is I never address it.
This continues to spiral in my life.
I make decisions that are destructive for me or for this relationship.
And I'm poisoning the relationship because I never deal with it.
Maybe you have a familiar pattern in you or in your life as well.
Now, when Jesus talks to people, he's asked the question about the most important stuff.
He tells people, look, here's the biggest stuff we got going on.
Love God with everything you've got and love your neighbor as yourself.
And then there's this big, long conversation about who's my neighbor and who doesn't.
It's like, if you can name them, they're your neighbor.
If you can identify a person, they're your neighbor.
If they're a human being, they're your neighbor.
It's kind of what it comes down to.
Which means that people who are followers of Jesus.
And I realize some of you are like, I'm still not sure about this.
I'm investigating it.
I'm not sure I'm ready to do that.
I get that.
But for followers of Jesus, there is an obligation to always love our neighbors, which is so
unbelievably difficult.
Because maybe Jesus didn't know our neighbors.
Like, really?
I got to love these people?
But if that's true, then love obligates us to move toward whatever separates us.
Whoa, is that hard.
Love obligates us to move toward whatever separates us.
Whoa, is that hard?
Love obligates us to move toward whatever separates us.
Love obligates us to move toward whatever separates us.
And I would say, which is so crucially important here is, this has to be done in humility and
gentleness.
Love obligates us to move toward whatever separates us in humility and gentleness.
But what do we do with that?
I mean, most of us, when it comes to like truth-filled, hard truth conversations, we
learned a formula that I just want to tell you, I just, it's so lame.
It's the most unbelievably lame formula.
It's the most unbelievably lame formula.
And I'm going to show it to you, and all of you are probably familiar with it, whether,
you know, high school students probably got it, like at some point in some like leadership
development thing in your school.
They showed you how to do it when you have to have a confrontation or a hard conversation
with someone else.
You got, I guarantee you got it.
You get it in, like, the, your first, you know, like work orientation thing as an employee
of some big company.
If you have to have a hard conversation with someone, I want you to employ this technique.
It's called the compliment sandwich.
Have you guys heard of this thing before?
Yes.
Right?
And it just goes like this, tell someone a really nice compliment.
You know, everybody likes you.
You're really wonderful.
Also, you're a horrible person.
And also, but, but, but also everybody says you have a nice tan, and we all agree, and it's just, we all, so anyway, that's how that goes.
Now, anybody who's ever had the compliment sandwich done to them, as soon as you feel it coming, it's like this is the most fake, manipulative, flattery kind of thing.
And as soon as you hear but or any of its other synonyms, although there's some things we need to work on, the only thing you hear is that.
And then you hear this compliment at the end, and it's like, it's like the worst, grossest feeling kind of like I'm trying to smooth over a hard thing I had to tell you because you were afraid to say it, and so it becomes sort of really difficult, right?
Everybody's had this experience, or at least you've been told to do it this way, and you can feel yourself doing it, and it's like, this is a very lame way to do this.
In fact, let me point this out to make this even clearer.
When you order a sandwich, you order a sandwich by the contents that are between the bread.
Are you with me?
You do not order a sandwich by the bread first.
You don't go in and order a sourdough sandwich.
You order a turkey sandwich, and they go, what kind of bread do you want?
I want it on sourdough, or I want it on wheat, or I want it on rye.
To that point, this is not a compliment sandwich.
This is a butt sandwich.
And that's nasty.
Can we agree that that is just, that's lame?
It feels like flattery and manipulation, and it's this compliment, it's like this is what this feels like to us, and it's so unbelievably disingenuous.
It's something that hurts.
It hurts us, and it's so fake, and it is so ineffective, and far more effective, according to research, better than a butt sandwich is not a compliment, but a commitment.
It's a commitment to the person and to the relationship.
Way more important than a little bit of like buttering them up for a hard thing is to tell them, look, I really care about you.
Look, receptivity to hard truth, the way we kind of talk about it.
It's always based on the degree to which the confronted person is convinced that they are loved and supported by the one who is doing the confronting.
The receptivity to a hard truth is always based on the degree to which the confronted person feels loved and supported by the one doing the confronting themselves.
Does that make sense?
In other words, it's way better to say, look, I'm in this with you, as opposed to, I really like you.
Give you an example.
Here's how this goes.
And you can try this.
Lots of different ways.
Because I love you and I'm committed to you, that's how you start the conversation.
I owe it to you to have a direct and honest conversation about some hard stuff.
That's way better than the compliment, excuse me, the butt sandwich.
It's way better than that.
Because I love you and I'm committed to you, I owe it to you to have a direct and honest conversation about some hard stuff in me or about you.
Here's what's going on with me and I need you to know about it.
Or here's that thing that I've noticed between us that I can't let go any longer because I care about us and I care about you.
If love moves towards the thing that's an obstacle or that thing that whatever is between us, let me just ask you, with whom or about what do you need to employ this?
If love always moves toward that thing that's between us, the obstacle that runs between us, then with whom or about what do you need to have this conversation?
Because I love you and I'm committed to you.
I owe it to you to have a direct and honest conversation about some hard stuff.
Now, the model for this, by the way, is probably not surprising.
If you're asked the question, how are we supposed to live or act?
If you're just like, what's the model for this?
It's like, oh, probably, I think it's Jesus.
Jesus is the answer, okay?
If you're ever asked the question.
In church, who are we supposed to live like?
Oh, Jesus?
That's the answer, okay?
I just want to let you know, right?
Now, I want you to suppose for a moment that Jesus, who is not insecure, who is not a people pleaser, he's okay with the truth.
He's like, kind of calls himself, I don't know if you remember this, he calls himself the truth.
He's like, okay with this.
But he comes to us, and I just want you to imagine for a moment that he has the same conversation with you.
It looks like this.
Again.
I'm paraphrasing.
Bear with me.
This is Jesus to you.
Because I love you, and I'm committed to you, I owe it to you to have a direct and honest conversation about some hard stuff.
There's some stuff in your life that you're not equipped to handle alone.
It's what has kept us apart.
It's called sin, and you may not see it, but it's there.
You may not even want to call it sin.
But it's there.
And at times it tells you you're worthless, unwanted, and you're a stranger.
At other times it fills you with a blind self-righteousness, enabling you to cause others to believe that they're worthless and unwanted too.
And to break free from it, you have to face it.
You have to see it for what it is.
You have to face it.
And then you have to let me take it from you.
You have to release it.
Because this is what the cross is for.
Because I love you and I'm committed to you, I owe it to you to have a direct and honest conversation about some hard stuff.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This very idea is what is remembered.
This very idea is what is remembered.
This very idea is what is remembered.
This very idea is what is remembered across the globe for centuries.
It is recalled in some cases weekly by many church communities.
We do it about monthly, but it is remembered in communion.
Jesus, with his own disciples, says, look, there's some stuff that's been between us that I'm going to put to death on the cross.
And so as he gathers with his disciples on the night of his betrayal, he gathers them together.
And after he's looking at the Passover feast, all the elements of the Passover feast.
And after he had taken the cross, he says, look, I'm going to put it on the cross.
And after he had taken the bread and he had given thanks, he broke it and he gave it to his disciples, saying, this is my body which is given for you.
Remember, he's foreshadowing the cross here.
In the same way, the Bible says that he took the cup, saying, this is the cup of the new covenant in my blood.
And we use the word covenant.
Covenant is a word that means a sacred agreement of love and trust, like a marriage.
And he said, look, there's a new covenant, a new agreement between God and people that's been fused together now because of this cup, this blood.
So whenever you eat, he says, this is the cup of the new covenant.
This is the new covenant in my blood.
And whenever you eat this bread and you drink this cup, do it and remember me.
There's a hard truth.
People have been separated from God by their sin, and I'm going to put it to death on the cross.
And so we're invited in confession and in honesty and in truth to meet Jesus in this moment and to remember him in communion.
So that's what we're going to do.
Would you pray with me as we deal with that hard truth?
And that we become more acquainted with the joy and the peace and the love of Jesus as we do it.
Father, we're grateful that you aren't a people pleaser, that you aren't trying to flatter us.
And that you love us with a love we could never even possibly fathom.
So Father, we confess to you, whatever it is that's in our life,
that we've allowed to be there,
that we can't handle anymore.
Jesus, as we go to remember you in communion,
might we come to an understanding of your deep, compassionate love for us
that would take away anything that separates us from you.
And we place our faith in you.
And we remember in these symbols, the bread and the cup,
how you have come to meet us.
And that's the truth.
So Jesus, it's in your name that we pray.
Amen.
When you're ready, instructions for communion are on the screen.
When you're ready to come forward, you can do so.
