 All right, good morning church. Good morning. Beated with you. Good to be with you. How you feeling good? Good get some energy in here. I love it. My name is Rob Fernandez I've privilege of being one of the pastors here specifically over outreach I also am on the teaching team but an honor to be with you those that are outside Grateful you could join us that way those that are online glad that you're there, too But just know that there's always room for you in person the people that are in the room This I believe is the beautiful picture of what it looks like to be together and worship together This is the picture of the church. So I'm honored to be with you I am getting to kind of close up our series somebody save me But before we jump into it, I did want to give you an update because a lot of you've been asking about What's happening with the hurricane, you know? Haley and Milton that kind of there's all the people that are impacted so grateful because of your generosity Our church has already been able to be a part of the work that's being done on the ground there in six different states Distribution centers, thank you. Thank you. Thank you You are impacting the lives of people that are hurting right now And so we're gonna as a church continue to pray but know that your generosity towards outreach God is using that because we've been able to partner with people that are on the ground already Wanted you to know that before we jumped in. All right So we're in this series somebody saved me now I'm gonna tell you I haven't always been someone that has followed Jesus my whole life That'll be a part of my story that I share But when I was not following Jesus and I would hear kind of the idea of like to be saved or salvation It was kind of a foreign word for me, but I also had a very narrow understanding of what it meant to be saved I understood it in my narrow understanding as like some kind of protection from a punishment that would happen later But they're like there something was gonna happen and and salvation would save you from that punishment later in life or even after this life Okay, that was my narrow view but it is so much more than that as I've learned Jesus says this in Luke 19 He says for the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost now we could read that and to see the word Save and say okay my my narrow Understanding is still relevant But the reality is as we look at that word to save it is so much more robust than we can understand Now that word to save is this Greek word sozo which actually means more than just this idea saving There's this rescue and healing and preservation part of what it means to be saved So when Jesus says I came to seek and save the lost he's talking about this really robust understanding of saving healing preserving and rescuing now I'd mentioned for me as a young adult salvation or being saved wasn't very compelling to me because of my narrow Understanding I just thought well if it's something about that's gonna get dealt with later I'll deal with it later because I don't have to worry about it until that time comes and I would then choose to live my life taking steps towards things of this world because I thought well That's for later if this whole God thing is real Deal with it later And what I did was in not really understanding what I was doing every step that I took towards the world the part of creation That's separated from God my own selfish desires. I Started to build a momentum in my life. I started to build a momentum actually towards it was carrying me towards my own Destruction and here's the thing when momentum builds by the time we realize where it's carrying us Sometimes it can feel like it's too late. I'm gonna share a story You're welcome to laugh at this picture myself. I actually had like the group photo and then the individual I decided to not show the individual photo because I didn't want you to judge me for my frosted tips in the early 2000s, but this is me football I was I'm right here number 21. I just don't I'm not like sharing the glory days I was not a great athlete. I was a very average athlete. I was not the best that wasn't the worst But I definitely wasn't the best the reason I share this is because after this picture was taken the next season You start practice and when you start practice you don't play with the helmet and pads You're like kind of get back into like the agility of it all and your cardio and all those things the drills and so one summer Day, I'm at practice and I wasn't very good But I tried to give it my all and I remember I played defense and so one of the drills that we would run Is that you would backpedal the coach would be in front of you He would throw the ball and your job is to get to the ball Intercept the ball turn your hips and run full speed to intercept the ball. So here I am. I'm backpedaling all focus I see the ball thrown. I'm running full speed what I didn't realize is that the coach had overthrown the ball and it and I were heading directly into the corner of a brick building that was at the edge of the football Now what I was told is that I hit that corner of the brick wall full speed face first what I remember is Waking up opening my eyes feeling like I was waking up for the day It was such a strange feeling but I've opened my eyes all of my teammates and friends are around me saying like are you okay? They said that my body had ricocheted like eight feet and then just laid flat on the on the field Now I woke up and I had Broken my teeth in my mouth of the front my teeth were just destroyed I had two black eyes I had a busted collarbone and I had a bruise from like my forehead a Perfect line of a bruise from the corner of the wall down my torso now. I Remember, you know because I had broken my teeth my I actually didn't like they didn't get knocked out I cut they were cut in half. I'm so sorry to share that detail, but I had the choice I remember I had the choice the dentist like you could go with the gold tooth or Like the regular porcelain porcelain one and I think about like where would my life have gone and I chosen the gold tooth in the front but You know I had there was a dance coming up after that and to get all the dental surgery it took a while And so my dentist actually like glued my half tooth back on and I remember the week of the dance I bit into something hard and it and it popped out again And so I'm an insecure high schooler who now looks like a Hispanic hillbilly and I'm like, what do I do with myself? But I share that story because the point of it is that my momentum The steps that I had taken had carried me to a place of my own destruction And in an existence of which I was broken which I did not want My momentum had carried me to a place that Resulted with me being in a broken state, and I did not want that now the reality is We are multifaceted beings. We are our physical selves. That is true God has created us to have this physical body But we are also more than that there is a part of us a facet of who we are in which every single one of us Shares the part of us in which God has breathed into us our soul So we are spiritual beings as much as we are physical beings and The truth of our momentum is true for both of those things In the same way that our bodies can physically carry me towards a brick wall the choices and the steps that we take and the Decisions that we make have the power to build a momentum in our spiritual lives that potentially are Taking us and carrying us to a place that we actually don't want to go maybe are even our own destruction and we could feel Like by the time we realize where it's carrying us that it's too late So we have to ask this question knowing that we are Multifaceted knowing that we are physical and spiritual beings we have to ask this question. Where is my momentum taking me? Where is my momentum taking me? You know sometimes we then after we ask this question like and do I have it in me to change direction? But where is my momentum taking me is there a part of your life that you are not convinced that you have it in you To change direction maybe there. It's a part of your life that you've hidden from others Maybe it's a part of your life that feels like a small thing But you're realizing well I've taken a lot of steps towards this thing that I've tried to hide and it is carrying me to a place that I do Not want to go Maybe it's visible by other people or you've done a good job hiding it we all wrestle with things That could build an unhealthy momentum in our lives if they aren't addressed And it leads us to a story of a man named Paul now Paul was a very influential person in the church Especially in the early church But he didn't start following Jesus until after the crucifixion of Jesus after the resurrection from the grave and after Jesus has sent it Back into heaven after all of that takes place is when Paul begins to follow Jesus But his story many of you might know is messy. It is not a pretty story Paul's story even though he was so influential is very ugly at the start He wasn't a Jesus follower at first and it actually indicated that he probably had a level of hatred towards Christians and Jesus himself I mean just look at what scripture says in Acts 9. This is about Paul Meanwhile Saul was still breathing out murderous threats against the Lord's disciples I mean, this is a picture of I mean to breathe out murderous threats Imagine the darkness the whole the momentum that this individual might be feeling to be breathing out murderous threats against the Lord's disciples Continues it says that he went to the high priest and asked him for letters to the synagogues in Damascus another city So that if he found any there who belonged to the way, this is what they called people that followed Jesus the way Whether men or women he might take them as prisoners to Jerusalem No, he was a zealous man. It says and zeal is essentially like passion and action together It's not just like passion for the sake of passion But these two things working together and it said that he was zealous now zeal could be Unhealthily directed it could have this level of like it's carrying you to a bad place and in this case it was for him now You probably also thinking I keep saying his name is Paul, but I'm seeing Saul It is not a typo Paul had actually two interchangeable names and many people think like oh He was this way and then God changed him and he changed his name That's Simon that was changing to Peter Saul and Paul are both of his names Let me tell you why one was his Hebrew name So he Saul was his Hebrew name known by his Jewish community But uniquely to Paul he was a citizen of the Roman Empire very Jews were not typically citizens of the Roman Empire They were subjects subjects of the Empire not citizens for one reason or another Somehow Paul was given citizenship which was hard to get and so his Roman Empire name his his Latin name was Paulus or Paul And both of those were true and depending on his audience if he was talking to Jews He would go by by Saul if he was kind of Engaging with Gentiles and which are like non-jewish people us would be would be a Gentile. He would go by Paul So let's talk about momentum though. Let's talk about Paul's spiritual life momentum Here's what we know to be true. He is breathing out murderous threats against God's people Earlier in in the book of Acts we see that this man named Stephen a Christian had gone to the Jewish leadership and told them Hey listen I mean this beautiful explanation of who Jesus is and he says essentially when you rejected Jesus you rejected God and they dragged him out into the gates of Jerusalem and they stoned him to death and In that moment Paul is there Standing as people are laying their coats for Paul to watch them and it says that he watched the coats as they stoned Stephen to Death and then later on it says and he approved of the killing again What kind of thing is happening in Paul? What kind of like dark momentum had been built in his life to he got to the point where he's a witness of murder He's he's breathing out murder sets. I mean that is some serious momentum And so we actually see this in in Acts 8 But Saul began to destroy the church going from house to house He dragged both men and women and put them in prison I mean really picture that Imagine this group of people that belonged to the way they maybe they'd broken bread together and they were celebrating they get back home and they're there with their kids and this group of of Passionate and what they've heard is murderous people kicks the door open Drags the mom drags the dad is in front of their kids to prison as there I mean it says drag them they didn't like willingly go it was a violent scene and this is what this man Paul was a part of an absolute enemy of the church and of God and in the midst of heading down a Direction that was going to lead to his own destruction and potentially the destruction of the church something miraculous happens God chooses to intervene in a really incredible way Even though he was kind of in this place where I'm like, I don't know how you come back from that And so I ask you, you know, we're talking about momentum even of our spiritual lives Where is a place for you? That you have maybe been building this unhealthy momentum towards a thing that you've either tried to hide or people know about and You're you're holding on to this and you're like shoot I have I've been making these choices that is directing my spiritual life in a really harmful way And I don't know if I have it in me to change direction. Where is that for you? Hold on to where that is because what we're gonna get to see through Paul's life and what God does Is that we are never too far down a path no matter how powerful our momentum may be so with Paul God does something miraculous Remember Paul earlier had asked the kind of the high priest. Give me some letters I'm gonna go to these other cities and I'm gonna find more Christians and I'm gonna persecute them I'm gonna put them in prison and it seems like he got that letter So he's on his way to the city called Damascus and on his way Says that this heavenly light flashed around him kind of dropped him to his knees and and in that moment He has an experience with Jesus This is the after crucifixion after resurrection after heavenly ascendant like this is Jesus after all of those things meets Paul on This road to Damascus and and it's it's a powerful thing. And so we see what happens Next is that he's blinded He it says that he can't he doesn't eat or drink for three days He's led by his hand into Damascus and this is there But while all of that's happening God is doing something else in this in this person named Ananias Ananias was a Christian in Damascus in the city in which now Paul is at and God told Ananias Hey, I have this man. I want you to go pray for him and Ananias kind of wrestles with guys I've heard about this guy. He's a murderous type person. I don't is that and God's like no I want you to see what I'm gonna do through the life of this person whose Momentum was absolutely carrying him towards the destruction of himself in the church I want the world to see what I can do through this man's life And so we see in Acts 9 17 Then Ananias went to the house and entered it placing his hand on Saul. He said brother Saul the Lord Jesus who appeared to you on the road as you were coming here has sent me so that you may see again and be filled With the Holy Spirit I read this and there's you know that part Jesus who appeared to you What a beautiful picture of the grip the how graceful and and gracious to God the goddess Oscar I'm gonna get that sentence out It is a beautiful picture of Who God is his quality and characteristic You see we often think okay. I need to get my life, right? I need that thing that has been carrying momentum I need to figure it out first and then I can approach God and yet what we see is Jesus appears to him in the midst of all of this momentum that Paul had all of this darkness that Paul had God Meets him there in the same way that no matter how hard our momentum has carried us towards that brick wall of destruction In our life God is willing to meet us in that mess We don't have to figure out how to shift our momentum first God meets us there and what Jesus says to Paul He's like why do you persecute me and it's another beautiful picture Paul had been persecuting the church That's the closeness that God feels to his people that if the persecution is against them. It's to him That's the kind of proximity that Jesus feels I would argue absolutely not Paul did not have it in himself to change direction until this moment in time He didn't have it in him So what happened then how did a murderous prideful Spiritually blind person become a pillar of God's church someone who was known for their humility He called himself the least of the Apostles at one point Someone who was known for their humility he called himself the least of the Apostles at one point I mean this is a person who then invested their their entire life Into other people and raising up the church talking about the love of God through Jesus How does that kind of change happen and we ask that because all of us and I love that we say this as a church We are a work in progress people. We don't just say it we experience it So we all have these things that are still broken that we're still kind of working out What do we do with that we ask the question how does that kind of change happen because we want to experience that power in our lives as well No matter how committed to a path that maybe your momentum has carried you God offers something different and he wants us to experience that power to shift our momentum He wants us to have it Last week Jeff McGuire had he taught a great our senior pastor taught a great message and at the end there was an invitation an invitation to to make this kind of public declaration that that for the first time you wanted to follow Jesus And it was these words to stand up and say I believe so many people stood up and said I believe it was awesome It was powerful essentially people saying I not only do I believe that Jesus is who he says he is But I am placing my trust in this person Jesus I'm going to learn what it means to follow him but when we say I believe maybe like me when I kind of beginning to follow Jesus I would say okay I believe now what did I make it have I arrived is my my ticket punched for heaven is that all I have to worry about The reality is asking the question now what is a great question a question that we should all be asking pretty regularly God now what with an open hand posture like what is it that you want to do what do you have for me is a great question for us to ask And the reality is when it comes to salvation or being saved it is so much more than just the destination we eventually experience It is so much more robust there's so much more for us to experience now it is not just the destination It really is this lifelong process in which we go to God every single day and let me tell you sometimes it's painful Sometimes it could hurt to go to God and say I am clay in your hands will you shape me will you mold me will you change me Will you help me be more loving will you help me be more surrendered will you help me be more joy filled more secure more sacrificial Will you help me be more authentically connected to other people will you help me be more of who you are God and as you shape me Will you help me be less anxious less selfish less prideful less angry less of who I was and more of who you intend me to be That is a picture of what salvation looks like every single day of our lives and it is a process but we ask the question Do I have it in me to make that kind of daily consistent change and what was true for Paul is true for us on our own absolutely not I've tried it I've done some self help stuff before following Jesus and it got me about this far but not where I actually was intended to go by God It's so much more do I have it in me not on our own but what's true for Paul is true for us remember Ananias went to him and he said Brother Saul the Lord Jesus who appeared to you on the road as you were coming here has sent me so that you may see again and what be filled with the Holy Spirit You want to talk about the power that has the ability to shift our momentum from our destruction towards the life that God intends that is filled with all joy and peace There is a power and that power is the Holy Spirit that's what Paul experienced on that day that Ananias prayed for him And it's such a beautiful picture of what God gives us you see God gave of himself twice to us through Jesus on the cross God gave his son who died on the cross willingly Rose again from the dead defeating death forever paying the price of our sin but eventually Jesus would say I'm going I got to go I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and I'm going to sit at the right hand of the Father and remember I'd mentioned that the Spirit decides that He wants to dwell in us and every person that follows Jesus becomes a place in which the Spirit dwells. Before the Spirit of God was confined, not really, but man made hands made the Holy of Holies in the temple and God's Spirit was there. When Jesus was crucified, the veil that separated that place in the temple, it was torn. It was a picture of God saying, Listen, I can't be confined into a space. I am choosing to dwell now in the lives and in the hearts of my people. That is where my Spirit will now live. And so you have Paul writing to Timothy saying, Look, this is a gift. We don't have to earn it. It is something that is given. And it gives us these things, power, love, and self-discipline. The Spirit of God is not for pastors on a stage. It's not for people who lead worship. It is not for a small select few, a group of people that follow Jesus. The Spirit of God is for every single one of us. Every single one of us. If you believe in the person of Jesus, you have now become a place in which the Spirit of God dwells. That is what God has chosen. And it says it gives us power, love, and self-discipline. Power for what? Power to be transformed into the person that God intends every single day. Power to live in the purpose in which God has given every single one of us. All of us have a purpose, whether we realize it or not. That our purpose on this earth and actually for eternity is to live in the presence of God that was made available because of Jesus, and then to invite others into that same presence. We all share that purpose. And it's going to look so different depending on the life that we live and the places that we work. But all of us share that purpose. So there's power. And then there's love. Love that helps direct ourselves away from ourselves. To look to other people and say, how can I care for you? To look towards the stranger who's hurting and have the same compassion that God has. That's what the Spirit gives us. Even the people that we consider enemies. The power of the Spirit in us says, I will learn to love those that I have called enemies. And potentially I can learn they're not actually enemies at all, but they are image bearers of God. That is one thing that we get to learn our entire lives. And it's hard. Part of that love also helps us let go of the bitterness and unforgiveness we carry. That Spirit that God has given us lets us let go of bitterness and unforgiveness because of love. Gosh, maybe you're here. Maybe you are here and you've said these words to yourself. I just hate myself. I'm so sorry. That is heartbreaking. Because that is not what God intends for you at all. Maybe you screwed up, you messed up, you did a thing and you're sitting in the shame. You're like, I just hate myself. That is not what God wants for you. His Spirit in you will tell you different. His Spirit in you will point you back to his son Jesus who died on a cross for you. He has made us worthy of love. God says you are of infinite value to me. That's what the Spirit of love does in us. And then self-discipline. The ability to say no to the part of us that wants to carry us, our momentum towards our own destruction. That's what self-discipline is. The ability to say no to the part of us that wants to carry us towards that brick wall will absolutely destroy us. And God says, I'll give you that power, that love and that self-discipline. And you might be thinking, okay Rob, if I have the Spirit of God in me, I've said yes to Jesus. And if you haven't yet and you're here, so glad that you're here. God is, he is present with you and directing you. I hope you know that. You are absolutely welcome in this place. But if you are a person who's like, I'm a Christian, I believe in Jesus. Why do I still mess up if the Spirit of God is in me? Why do I still fail if the Spirit of God is in me? I'm going to share a story that kind of spans my whole life. I've dealt with anger and like rage in my life. Like really was kind of a large quality of who I was, especially as a kid and as a young adult. About 12 years old, I was on the receiving end of somebody's disproportionate anger. And from that point in my life at 12 years old until about 24, anger is what directed my life. I didn't really quite understand how destructive it was, but it was what kind of led my life until I was about 24. I felt like God was calling me back into his presence. And I remember I got into like a scuffle with somebody and I got home and I was raging. I was like, I'm going to go get retribution. I wanted revenge and it was all consuming, all consuming. But I was following Jesus and what I didn't quite understand is the Holy Spirit was dwelling in me. And I remember feeling like God was saying, Rob, this is not what I want for you. In that moment of my rage at one in the morning, it was like, God was like, I do not want this for you. And so I remember I went, I let go of my plan for revenge and retribution. I went to my bed and I sat there with my fist clenched and I said, God, if this is not from you, then take it away. Take it away in tears in my eyes. I woke up the next morning, a changed man. It is nothing short of a miracle of what God did in my life. My girlfriend, who is now my wife at the time. Well, she's my wife now, but it was my girlfriend at the time. Thank you. She'll attest to it. She's like, Rob, from that point in your life, everything was different. And I can only give credit to God for really healing me from something that was deeply rooted. Now, this is now the admission of my own continued process. About a month ago, I had just all of these things being built up in me. Frustration, life, I was doing my taxes. I'm like, it's almost October and I'm doing, I was just stressed out. And something happened in my life where it just started to build. I felt the momentum, something that I hadn't experienced in 15 years, start to build in me. And my wife asked me, and we're in the kitchen and my daughter's kind of in the other room there. And she's like, hey, are you OK? Because she could see something was up. And as I began to explain all of the things, I felt it rise. I felt it rise and I felt it rise to the point that I'm like, I'm about to have a meltdown right now. And so in that moment, wanting to guard my family from my own expression of rage and anger that was building up inside me, I storm out of the room with all of my frustration. I'm like beelining it for the garage because I have a weight set in there. I'm like, I just need something to like express this rage that I'm feeling. I kick the garage door open. I mean, I'm telling you, I'm having a total meltdown, but trying to isolate myself from my family. And I remember my daughter's tricycle was in the way. I like I hooked that thing. I keep walking it two more steps. There's boxes that I just placed there, like all organized. I hooked those things and I get I put more weight than I could carry. I sit there and I have this moment of rage. And after it's all done, you know what I realized? I'm not OK. This didn't solve it. I was still sitting in that rage. Here's the here's the worst part for me. I hear my daughter who hears the commotion in the garage. Ask my wife, what's happening? In that moment, I felt all of the shame and all of the guilt of my own brokenness in that moment of giving into where my momentum was letting me go. And I got the keys because I still was feeling that. And I left and I found myself in a parking lot just kind of sitting and wrestling with God. I was sitting and wrestling with God because here's what I asked God. Didn't you heal me? Wasn't this thing that I dealt with? Isn't that? Didn't you heal me? What happened? Have I been believing a lie? And God's Holy Spirit, which is so merciful and gracious, in that moment as I sat in my car, he says, Rob, I have saved you and I am saving you. I have healed you and I am healing you. And I was overwhelmed in that moment of just by God's mercy and grace because I was telling myself, you failure of a dad, you you are such a fraud. You can never share this story, hide this. And then God's Spirit steps in and says, Rob, I have healed you and I am healing you. Both of those things are true. And it let me let go of the lies. It let me hold on to truth. And maybe you are here and there is something in your life, a momentum in which you have been carrying that has been directing you towards destruction. And you need to hear from God. I have saved you and I am saving you. I have healed you and I am healing you. You see, what that allows us to understand is when we do have a failure in our life, even with the Spirit of God in us, it is not the end. It is the opportunity for the Spirit to direct us again, to heal us again. I went home after that and I felt convicted by the Holy Spirit. He was like, go apologize. Go apologize. Yeah, you isolated yourself in the garage, but you need to go apologize. So I went to my wife and I am like, I am so sorry that this kind of out thing, whatever I did, happened. And she is like, Rob, she is so gracious. She is like, I know you have a lot on your plate. And then I go to my daughter. And I sit her down and I am like, hey, dad got really frustrated and really upset. And I did not count to four the way that I have taught you to. And she is so sweet. She is like, that is okay, dad. You know, she runs off and plays. I didn't count to four. I am a work in progress. We are a work in progress, but we aren't alone in the progress. And God gives us his Holy Spirit. Paul would say this, for the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, the process of salvation, the process of rescue, the process of healing, it is the power of God. There was a point in my life where the cross was foolish to me. I didn't get it until God met me in my mess and said, I can redirect your whole life if you let me. And the more I surrender to God, the more I experience the power of God. And I am telling you, the more you surrender and say, God, there are these things, I am not going to hide anymore. I am not going to hide them from you. I am not going to hide them from other people. I want you to address them. Will you shift my momentum? Will you change my direction? No matter how far down a path you have gone, Jesus will meet you there. He does not need you to figure your life out. First, he will meet you in the mess. And then you will begin to have this power in you, the spirit that will direct your life. And you know what? Later on, even if you follow Jesus, when you mess up, God's spirit will be there again to say, I have saved you and I will continue to do so. Let me work in you. That is power that is available to us. Where is your momentum taking you? Maybe the better question is, have you allowed God to be a part of that process with you? Because I am telling you, you will be met with mercy and grace and your life will be transformed by the indwelling of his spirit in you. Let's pray together. Lord God, we are so grateful. We are grateful for the way that you love us and care for us, the fact that you meet us in our mess. Your spirit is gracious, Lord. God, I pray for the person here that maybe they believe the lie, that they are too far gone, that their momentum has taken them too far. God, you are the one who saves, who rescues, who heals. Lord, I pray that your Holy Spirit would continue to dwell in us and that you would give us an awareness of how you were moving, that we might run to you, our Father, and be met with love and mercy. Thank you, God, for caring for us in that way. God, we are done with the hiding. We run to you. Would you meet us? Would you guide us? Would you direct us? It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.